=== Drug: EFAVIRENZ & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. HIV Med. 2009 May;10(5):290-301. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2008.00685.x. Epub 
2009 Feb 8.

Improvement in lipid profiles over 6 years of follow-up in adults with AIDS and 
immune reconstitution.

Williams P(1), Wu J, Cohn S, Koletar S, McCutchan J, Murphy R, Currier J; AIDS 
Clinical Trials Group 362 Study Team.

Collaborators: Putnam B, Kessler H, Adeyemi O, Cahill S, Hoffman J, Salata R, 
Galloway P, Payne MM, Lawrence J, Reid J, O'Hara T, Norris J, Valle S, Squires 
KE, Watson K, Mills C, Gaca C, Cooley T, Witt M, Shaik S, Forcht J, Gonzalez C, 
Glesby M, Hughes V, Storey S, Schouten J, Balfour HH Jr, Fietzer C, Gunthel C, 
Patrick E, O'Brien WA, Casey G, Galveston, Rodriguez M, Kessels L, Feinberg J, 
Powell T, Goldman M, Zwickl B, Riddle J, MacDougall P, van der Horst C, Ragan D, 
Chusid E, Weiss W, Mildvan D, McNeil J, MacGregor RR, Maffei K, Wiggins I, 
Worrell-Thorne R, Clark RA, Steinberg JP.

Author information:
(1)Center for Biostatistics in AIDS Research, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA. paige@sdac.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to evaluate long-term changes in lipids and 
to assess other coronary heart disease (CHD) risk factors in highly experienced 
AIDS patients with immune reconstitution, and to examine their association with 
antiretroviral therapy (ART).
METHODS: We evaluated 433 AIDS patients with prior severe immunosuppression and 
ART-based immune reconstitution, followed in a multicentre prospective 
observational study between 2000 and 2006. We estimated the prevalence at entry 
of hypercholesterolaemia and metabolic syndrome, and 10-year CHD risks. Trends 
in total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG) and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) 
cholesterol were evaluated over time, and use of specific ART drugs at each 
study visit was assessed using mixed effect models, adjusting for CHD risk 
factors and use of lipid-lowering agents.
RESULTS: At entry to observational follow-up, 28% of the 433 subjects had 
hypercholesterolaemia and 15% had a predicted 10-year CHD risk above 20%. 
Average TC and fasting TG levels declined over the follow-up period (median=5.8 
years), and these declines were associated with increased use of 
physician-prescribed lipid-lowering agents and changes in ART regimens. After 
adjustment for CHD risk factors, TC and TG levels were significantly higher for 
those on ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitors and those on nonnucleoside 
reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), particularly efavirenz, than for 
other patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Abnormalities in serum lipids were common at baseline but became 
less so over time, and this improvement was associated with increased use of 
lipid-lowering agents and selection of ART agents with less deleterious effects 
on lipids.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2008.00685.x
PMCID: PMC2778216
PMID: 19220493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. PLoS Med. 2004 Oct;1(1):e19. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0010019. Epub 2004 Oct 
19.

Nevirapine and efavirenz elicit different changes in lipid profiles in 
antiretroviral-therapy-naive patients infected with HIV-1.

van Leth F(1), Phanuphak P, Stroes E, Gazzard B, Cahn P, Raffi F, Wood R, Bloch 
M, Katlama C, Kastelein JJ, Schechter M, Murphy RL, Horban A, Hall DB, Lange JM, 
Reiss P.

Author information:
(1)International Antiviral Therapy Evaluation Center, Division of Infectious 
Diseases, Tropical Medicine, and AIDS, Department of Internal Medicine, Academic 
Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands. f.vanleth@iatec.com

Erratum in
    PLoS Med. 2004 Dec;1(3):e73.

BACKGROUND: Patients infected with HIV-1 initiating antiretroviral therapy (ART) 
containing a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) show 
presumably fewer atherogenic lipid changes than those initiating most ARTs 
containing a protease inhibitor. We analysed whether lipid changes differed 
between the two most commonly used NNRTIs, nevirapine (NVP) and efavirenz (EFV).
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Prospective analysis of lipids and lipoproteins was 
performed in patients enrolled in the NVP and EFV treatment groups of the 2NN 
study who remained on allocated treatment during 48 wk of follow-up. Patients 
were allocated to NVP (n = 417), or EFV (n = 289) in combination with stavudine 
and lamivudine. The primary endpoint was percentage change over 48 wk in 
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c), total cholesterol (TC), TC:HDL-c 
ratio, non-HDL-c, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglycerides. The 
increase of HDL-c was significantly larger for patients receiving NVP (42.5%) 
than for patients receiving EFV (33.7%; p = 0.036), while the increase in TC was 
lower (26.9% and 31.1%, respectively; p = 0.073), resulting in a decrease of the 
TC:HDL-c ratio for patients receiving NVP (-4.1%) and an increase for patients 
receiving EFV (+5.9%; p < 0.001). The increase of non-HDL-c was smaller for 
patients receiving NVP (24.7%) than for patients receiving EFV (33.6%; p = 
0.007), as were the increases of triglycerides (20.1% and 49.0%, respectively; p 
< 0.001) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (35.0% and 40.0%, respectively; 
p = 0.378). These differences remained, or even increased, after adjusting for 
changes in HIV-1 RNA and CD4+ cell levels, indicating an effect of the drugs on 
lipids over and above that which may be explained by suppression of HIV-1 
infection. The increases in HDL-c were of the same order of magnitude as those 
seen with the use of the investigational HDL-c-increasing drugs.
CONCLUSION: NVP-containing ART shows larger increases in HDL-c and decreases in 
TC:HDL-c ratio than an EFV-containing regimen. Based on these findings, 
protease-inhibitor-sparing regimens based on non-nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitor, particularly those containing NVP, may be expected to 
result in a reduced risk of coronary heart disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0010019
PMCID: PMC523838
PMID: 15526045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: FvL has received travel 
grants and honoraria for presentations from Boehringer Ingelheim and travel 
grants from GlaxoSmithKline. PP has received research grants and honoraria for 
speaking from GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Roche, Merck Sharp and 
Dohme, and Boerhinger Ingleheim. BG has received grants and honoraria from 
Abbott Pharmaceuticals, GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Gilead, and 
Boehringer Ingleheim. FR has received research grants and honoraria from 
GlaxoSmithKline, Roche, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Abbott, and Boehringer Ingleheim. 
RW is conducting clinical research supported by GlaxoSmithKline, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Pfizer, and Bristol-Myers Squibb. MB is currently conducting clinical 
studies supported by Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, and Merck. CK 
has received grants and honoraria for speaking from Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bayer, and Roche. MS has received 
research grants, travel grants, and honoraria for speaking from Abbott, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Boehringer Ingelheim, GlaxoSmithKline, Gilead, Merck, and 
Roche. RLM has received honoraria for consultancies from Boehringer Ingelheim 
and Bristol-Myers Squibb. AH has received honoraria for presentations from 
Boehringer Ingleheim. DBH is employed by Boehringer Ingelheim, the manufacturer 
of one of the trial medications. JMAL has received honoraria as an advisor for 
GlaxoSmithKline, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Roche, Merck Sharp 
and Dohme, Schering-Plough, Bayer, Shire Pharmaceuticals, Agouron/Pfizer, and 
Virco/Tibotec. PR, in the last five years, has received honoraria for speaking 
engagements from Boehringer Ingelheim. JMAL is a member of the editorial board 
of PLoS Medicine.


3. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2002;2(2):91-106. doi:
10.2165/00129784-200202020-00003.

Management of protease inhibitor-associated hyperlipidemia.

Penzak SR(1), Chuck SK.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pharmacokinetics Laboratory, Clinical Center Pharmacy Department, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. 
SPenzak@mail.cc.nih.gov

Dyslipidemia, characterized by elevated serum levels of triglycerides and 
reduced levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) 
and high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, has been recognized in patients with 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. It is thought that elevated levels 
of circulating cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha and 
interferon-alpha, may alter lipid metabolism in patients with HIV infection. 
Protease inhibitors, such as saquinavir, indinavir and ritonavir, have been 
found to decrease mortality and improve quality of life in patients with HIV 
infection. However, these drugs have been associated with a syndrome of fat 
redistribution, insulin resistance, and hyperlipidemia. Elevations in serum 
total cholesterol and triglyceride levels, along with dyslipidemia that 
typically occurs in patients with HIV infection, may predispose patients to 
complications such as premature atherosclerosis and pancreatitis. It has been 
estimated that hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia occur in greater 
than 50% of protease inhibitor recipients after 2 years of therapy, and that the 
risk of developing hyperlipidemia increases with the duration of treatment with 
protease inhibitors. In general, treatment of hyperlipidemia should follow 
National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines; efforts should be made to 
modify/control coronary heart disease risk factors (i.e. smoking; hypertension; 
diabetes mellitus) and maximize lifestyle modifications, primarily dietary 
intervention and exercise, in these patients. Where indicated, treatment usually 
consists of either pravastatin or atorvastatin for patients with elevated serum 
levels of LDL-C and/or total cholesterol. Atorvastatin is more potent in 
lowering serum total cholesterol and triglycerides compared with other 
hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, but it is also 
associated with more drug interactions compared with pravastatin. Simvastatin 
and lovastatin are significantly metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYP3A4) 
and are therefore not recommended for coadministration with protease inhibitors. 
A fibric acid derivative (gemfibrozil or fenofibrate) should be used in patients 
with primary hypertriglyceridemia. However, it must be kept in mind that 
protease inhibitors, such as nelfinavir and ritonavir, induce enzymes involved 
in the metabolism of the fibric acid derivatives and may, therefore, reduce the 
lipid-lowering activity of coadministered gemfibrozil or fenofibrate. In certain 
patients HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may be used in combination with fibric 
acid derivatives but patients should be carefully monitored for liver and 
skeletal muscle toxicity. Select patients may experience improvements in serum 
lipid levels when their offending protease inhibitor(s) is/are exchanged for 
efavirenz, nevirapine, or abacavir; however each patient's virologic and 
immunologic status must be taken closely into consideration.

DOI: 10.2165/00129784-200202020-00003
PMID: 14727985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2003 May 9;128(19):1051-4. doi: 10.1055/s-2003-39100.

[HIV-infection, HAART (highly-active antiretroviral therapy) and 
hyperlipidemia].

[Article in German]

Hirsch HH(1), Battegay M.

Author information:
(1)Abt. Infektiologie, Departement Innere Medizin, Universitätsspital Basel.

HISTORY AND ADMISSION FINDINGS: A 42-year-old man with long-standing 
HIV-infection (CDC C3) and multiple treatment failures was seen for follow-up 6 
months after starting a new HAART (zidovudine, efavirenz, indinavir, ritonavir). 
The medical history is remarkable for a hypersensitivity reaction to abacavir, 
past smoking (10 pack years) and a family history of coronary heart disease of 
the patient's mother. Physical examination revealed discrete signs of 
lipoatrophy of the face, arms and legs, but no lipoaccumulation (hip-waist ratio 
0.94; body mass index 22 kg/m2). Blood pressure measured 156/92 mmHg.
LABORATORY FINDINGS: A rise in CD4 cell count from 24/ microL to 60/ microL was 
noted. For the first time, the HIV viral load decreased to < 50 copies/mL. 
Concentrations of triglycerides and cholesterol were found to be increased to 26 
mmol/L (2275 mg/dL) and 15 mmol/L (580 mg/dL), respectively, compared previously 
normal readings. Other parameters were in the normal range.
DIAGNOSIS AND THERAPY: Continuation of HAART resulted in rising CD4 counts to > 
200/ microL and HIV viral load suppression to < 50 copies/mL. Neither dietary 
measures nor treatment with pravastatin significantly changed the drug-induced 
mixed hyperlipidemia. Treatment with fenofibrate (200 mg qd), however, was 
followed by a significant reduction of triglyceride and cholesterol 
concentrations to 12 mmol/L (1050 mg/dL) and 10 mmol/L (387 mg/dL). Addition of 
pravastatin did not result in further improvement. Arterial hypertension was 
diagnosed by ambulatory 24-h blood pressure monitoring (systolic 157+/-11 mmHg; 
diastolic 97+/-10 mmHg).
CONCLUSION: HAART-induced mixed hyperlipidaemia is likely to increase the 
cardiovascular risk. According to first estimates, the 3-year risk of myocardial 
infarction amounts to 1.29 - 2.09 % for our patient. The 3-year risk of HIV 
progression to AIDS or death is > 30 % if HAART is stopped or fails upon 
switching due to unknown archived drug resistance. Thus, despite unsatisfactory 
lipid profiles, a modification of HAART seems only acceptable, if new, equally 
potent, but less lipidaemic drug combinations are available.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-39100
PMID: 12736856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: ANESTHETIC AGENT & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2016 Jul 11;113(27-28):463-9. doi:
10.3238/arztebl.2016.0463.

Obstructive Sleep Apnea-a Perioperative Risk Factor.

Fassbender P(1), Herbstreit F, Eikermann M, Teschler H, Peters J.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Anesthesiology and Intensive Care & Essen University Hospital, 
Department of Anesthesia, Critical Care and Pain Medicine, Massachusetts General 
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA, und Universität 
Duisburg-Essen, Department of Interventional Pneumology, Ruhrlandklinik, 
University Hospital Essen.

Erratum in
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2016 Aug;113(31-32):524. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2016.0524.

BACKGROUND: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common disorder of breathing but 
is probably underappreciated as a perioperative risk factor.
METHODS: This review is based on pertinent articles, published up to 15 August 
2015, that were retrieved by a selective search in PubMed based on the terms 
"sleep apnea AND anesthesia" OR "sleep apnea AND pathophysiology." The 
guidelines of multiple specialty societies were considered as well.
RESULTS: OSA is characterized by phases of upper airway obstruction accompanied 
by apnea/hypoventilation, with hypoxemia, hypercapnia, and recurrent 
overactivation of the sympathetic nervous system. It has been reported that 22% 
to 82% of all adults who are about to undergo surgery have OSA. The causes of 
OSA are multifactorial and include, among others, an anatomical predisposition 
and /or a reduced inspiratory activation of the bronchodilator muscles, 
particularly when the patient is sleeping or has taken a sedative drug, 
anesthetic agent, or muscle relaxant. OSA is associated with arterial 
hypertension, coronary heart disease, and congestive heart failure. It can be 
assessed before the planned intervention with polysomnography and structured 
questionnaires (STOP/STOP-BANG), with sensitivities of 62% and 88%. The utility 
of miniaturized screening devices is debated. Patients with OSA are at risk for 
perioperative problems including difficult or ineffective mask ventilation 
and/or intubation, postoperative airway obstruction, and complications arising 
from other comorbid conditions. They should be appropriately monitored 
postoperatively depending on the type of intervention they have undergone, and 
depending on individually varying, patient-related factors; postoperative 
management in an intensive care unit may be indicated, although no validated 
data on this topic are yet available.
CONCLUSION: OSA patients need care by specialists from multiple disciplines, 
including anesthesiologists with experience in recognizing OSA, securing the 
airway of OSA patients, and managing them postoperatively. No randomized trials 
have yet compared the modalities of general anesthesia for OSA patients with 
respect to postoperative complications or phases of apnea or hypopnea.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2016.0463
PMCID: PMC4973000
PMID: 27476705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: ACYCLOVIR & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2022 Sep;88(9):3977-3989. doi: 10.1111/bcp.15429. Epub
2022  Jun 15.

Risk factors for vancomycin-associated acute kidney injury: A systematic review 
and meta-analysis.

Kim JY(1)(2), Yee J(1), Yoon HY(1), Han JM(3), Gwak HS(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy and Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Ewha 
Womans University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Catholic Kwandong University International St. Mary's 
Hospital, Incheon, Republic of Korea.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Chungbuk National University, Republic of Korea.

AIMS: This systematic literature review and meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the 
risk factors for vancomycin-associated acute kidney injury (AKI) incidence.
METHODS: This study assessed risk factors for vancomycin-associated AKI in adult 
patients by searching studies from PubMed, the Cochrane Library and Embase. 
Random effect models were used to calculate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence 
intervals (CIs).
RESULTS: Fifty-three studies were included in our meta-analysis. For patient 
factors, black race (OR 1.47, 95% CI: 1.16-1.87), Caucasian (OR 0.72, 95% CI: 
0.58-0.90) and obesity (OR 1.46, 95% CI: 1.12-1.90) were associated with an 
increase in vancomycin-associated AKIs. In terms of vancomycin-related factors, 
longer treatment duration (>14 d; OR 1.73, 95% CI: 1.06-2.83), serum vancomycin 
trough level >15 μg/mL (OR 2.10, 95% CI: 1.43-3.07) and vancomycin trough level 
>20 μg/mL (OR 2.84, 95% CI: 1.48-5.44) increased the risks of 
vancomycin-associated AKI. For comorbidities and clinical factors, renal disease 
(OR 2.19, 95% CI: 1.51-3.17) showed the highest odds of vancomycin-associated 
AKI, followed by hepatic disease, intensive care unit admission, heart failure, 
sepsis, coronary heart disease and diabetes mellitus. For concomitant 
nephrotoxic drugs, amphotericin B (OR 5.21, 95% CI: 3.44-7.87) showed the 
highest odds of vancomycin-associated AKI, followed by acyclovir (OR 3.22, 95% 
CI: 1.39-7.46), vasopressors, loop diuretics, piperacillin-tazobactam and 
aminoglycoside. The use of any concomitant nephrotoxic agent (OR 1.74, 95% CI: 
1.17-2.58) increased the odds of vancomycin-associated AKI.
CONCLUSION: Our results may help predict the risk of vancomycin-associated AKI 
in the clinical setting.

© 2022 British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bcp.15429
PMID: 35665530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Ter Arkh. 2020 Dec 15;92(12):10-18. doi: 10.26442/00403660.2020.12.200432.

[Pericarditis in contemporary therapeutic clinic: nosological spectrum, 
approaches to diagnosis and treatment].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Blagova OV(1), Nedostup AV(1), Sedov VP(1), Kogan EA(1), Alijeva IN(1), Sorokin 
GY(1), Sarkisova ND(1).

Author information:
(1)Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University (Sechenov University).

AIM: To analyze the register of pericarditis in a therapeutic clinic, to 
evaluate their nosological spectrum, to optimize approaches to diagnosis and 
treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: For the period 20072018, the register includes 76 
patients with the diagnosis of pericarditis (average age 53.115.7 years, 2085 
years, 46 female). Patients with hydropericardium were not included in the 
register. Diagnostic puncture of pericardium was carried out in 5 patients, 
pleural puncture in 11 patients. Morphological diagnostics included 
endomyocardial/ intraoperative biopsy of myocardium (n=4/2), 
thoracoscopic/intraoperative biopsy of pericardium (n=1/6), pleural puncture 
(n=5), transbronchial (n=1), thoracoscopic biopsy of intrathoracic lymph nodes 
(n=2), lung (n=1), supraclavicular lymph node biopsy (n=1), salivary gland 
(n=1), subcutaneous fat and rectum biopsy per amyloid (n=6/1). The genome of 
cardiotropic viruses, level of anti-heart antibodies, C-reactive protein, 
antinuclear factor, rheumatoid factor (antibodies to cyclic citrullinized 
peptide), antibodies to neutrophil cytoplasm were determined, extractable 
nuclear antigens (ENA), protein immunoelectrophoresis, diaskin test, computed 
tomography of lungs and heart, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, oncologic 
search.
RESULTS: The following forms of pericarditis were verified: tuberculosis (14%, 
including in combination with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy HCM), acute / chronic 
viral (8%) and infectious immune (38%), including perimyocarditis in 77%, 
pericarditis associated with mediastinum lymphoma/sarcoma (4%), sarcoidosis 
(3%), diffuse diseases of connective tissue and vasculitis (systemic lupus 
erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, diseases of Horton, Takayasu, Shegren, 
Wegener, 12%), leukoclastic vasculitis, Loefflers endomyocarditis, 
AL-amyloidosis, thrombotic microangiopathy (1% each), HCM (8%), coronary heart 
disease (constriction after repeated punctures and suppuration; postinfection 
and immune, 4%), after radiofrequency catheter ablation and valve prosthetics 
(2%). Tuberculosis was the main causes of constrictive pericarditis (36%). 
Treatment included steroids (n=39), also in combination with cytostatics (n=12), 
anti-tuberculosis drugs (n=9), acyclovir/ganclovir (n=14), hydroxychloroquine 
(n=23), colchicine (n=13), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (n=21), 
L-tyroxine (n=5), chemotherapy (n=1). In 36 patients different types of therapy 
were combined. Treatment results observed in 55 patients. Excellent and stable 
results were achieved in 82% of them. Pericardiectomy/pericardial resection was 
successfully performed in 8 patients. Lethality was 13.2% (10 patients) with an 
average follow-up 9 [2; 29.5] months (up to 10 years). Causes of death were 
chronic heart failure, surgery for HCM, pulmonary embolism, tumor.
CONCLUSION: During a special examination, the nature of pericarditis was 
established in 97% of patients. Morphological and cytological diagnostics 
methods play the leading role. Tuberculosis pericarditis, infectious-immune and 
pericarditis in systemic diseases prevailed. Infectious immune pericarditis is 
characterized by small and medium exudate without restriction and accompanying 
myocarditis. Steroids remain the first line of therapy in most cases. 
Hydroxychloroquine as well as colchicine can be successfully used in moderate / 
low activity of immune pericarditis and as a long-term maintenance therapy after 
steroid stop.

Publisher: Цель.Проанализировать регистр перикардитов в терапевтической клинике, 
оценить их нозологический спектр, оптимизировать подходы к диагностике и 
лечению. Материалы и методы.За период 20072018 гг. в регистр включены 76 больных 
с диагнозом перикардит (средний возраст 53,115,7 года, 2085 лет, 46 женщин). 
Пациенты с гидроперикардом не включались. Диагностическая пункция перикарда 
проведена 5 больным, плевральная пункция 11. Морфологическая диагностика 
включала эндомиокардиальную/интраоперационную биопсию миокарда (n=4/2), 
торакоскопическую/интраоперационную биопсию перикарда (n=1/6), плевры (n=5), 
трансбронхиальную (n=1), торакоскопическую биопсию внутригрудных лимфоузлов 
(n=2), легкого (n=1), биопсию надключичного лимфоузла (n=1), слюнной железы 
(n=1), подкожного жира и прямой кишки на амилоид (n=6/1). Проводились 
определение генома кардиотропных вирусов, уровня антикардиальных антител, 
С-реактивного белка, антинуклеарного фактора, ревматоидного фактора (антител к 
циклическому цитруллинированному пептиду), антител к цитоплазме нейтрофилов, 
экстрагируемым ядерным антигенам (ENA), иммуноэлектрофорез белков, диаскин-тест, 
мультиспиральная компьютерная томография легких и сердца, магнитно-резонансная 
томография сердца, консультация фтизиатра, онкопоиск. Результаты.Верифицированы 
следующие формы перикардита: туберкулезный (14%, в том числе в сочетании с 
гипертрофической кардиомиопатией ГКМП), острый/хронический вирусно-иммунный (8%) 
и инфекционно-иммунный (38%), в том числе с миокардитом в 77%, перикардит в 
рамках лимфомы средостения/саркомы сердца и перикарда (4%), саркоидоза (3%), 
диффузных болезней соединительной ткани и васкулитов (системной красной 
волчанки, ревматоидного артрита, болезней Хортона, Такаясу, Шегрена, Вегенера, 
12%), лейкокластического васкулита, панкардита Леффлера, AL-амилоидоза, 
тромботической микроангиопатии (по 1%), ГКМП (8%), ишемической болезни сердца 
(констрикция после неоднократных пункций и нагноения; постинфекционный и 
иммунный, 4%), после радиочастотной катетерной аблации и протезирования клапана 
(2%). Среди причин констриктивного перикардита преобладал туберкулез (36%). 
Лечение включало стероиды (n=39), в том числе в комбинации с цитостатиками 
(n=12), туберкулостатики (n=9), ацикловир/ганцикловир (n=14), гидроксихлорохин 
(n=23), колхицин (n=13), нестероидные противовоспалительные препараты (n=21), 
L-тироксин (n=5), химиотерапию (n=1); у 36 больных разные виды терапии 
сочетались. Результаты лечения прослежены у 55 больных, отличный и стабильный 
результат достигнут у 82% из них. Перикардэктомия/резекция перикарда успешно 
выполнена 8 пациентам. Летальность составила 13,2% (10 больных) при среднем 
сроке наблюдения 9 (2; 29,5) мес (до 10 лет), причины смерти хроническая 
сердечная недостаточность, операции по поводу ГКМП, тромбоэмболия легочной 
артерии, опухоли. Заключение.При тщательном обследовании природа перикардита 
установлена у 97% больных. Ведущую роль играют методы морфологической и 
цитологической диагностики. Преобладали туберкулезный перикардит, 
инфекционно-иммунный и перикардит в рамках системных болезней. Для 
инфекционно-иммунных перикардитов характерно наличие преимущественно малого и 
среднего по объему выпота без констрикции, сопутствующего миокардита. Стероиды 
остаются первой линией терапии при большинстве вариантов. Гидроксихлорохин, а 
также колхицин могут с успехом использоваться при инфекционно-иммунном 
перикардите умеренной/низкой степени активности и в качестве длительной 
поддерживающей терапии после отмены стероидов.

DOI: 10.26442/00403660.2020.12.200432
PMID: 33720567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Acta Med Croatica. 2009 Oct;63(4):325-7.

[Varicella zoster myopericarditis in an immunocompetent adult].

[Article in Croatian]

Biocić S(1), Durasević Z, Starcević B, Udovicić M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, University Department of Medicine, 
Dubrava University Hospital, Zagreb, Croatia.

More than 20 viruses have been reported to cause myopericarditis, a rare but 
potentially dangerous complication. To our best knowledge only a few dozen cases 
of myopericarditis caused by varicella zoster virus have been reported, most 
frequently in children, seldom in immunocompetent adults. We report on a case of 
a myopericarditis caused by varicella zoster virus in a previously healthy young 
man, with a typical development and a fast and complete recovery. A 27-years-old 
male was admitted to our hospital with chest pain and signs of acute cardiac 
injury. He had no medical history of serious previous illnesses. Four weeks 
earlier, the patient was in contact with a child having chickenpox. Two days 
prior to admission patient became suddenly febrile up to 40 degrees C along with 
dry cough, and the following day intense chest pain set in. At the admission we 
found in the patient diffuse vesiculous exanthema on the whole body and 
capillitium. Heart beat was rhythmical with no audible murmurs or pericardial 
friction rub, 100 beats per minute, blood pressure RR 130/90 mm Hg, body 
temperature 37.4 degrees C, and ST segment elevation in lateral leads along with 
elevated cardiac markers were found. All parameters of complete blood count were 
within normal range. Chest X-ray showed somewhat enlarged heart with incipient 
signs of cardiac decompensation. Echocardiogram was normal, apart from a mild 
dyskinesis of the apical third of intraventricular septum, with ejection 
fraction slightly reduced to 50% and no valvular defect. Clinical diagnosis of 
acute infection with varicella zoster virus was confirmed serologically by a 
positive ELISA test. Patient received conservative therapy (isosorbide 
mononitrate, low molecular weight heparin, acetylsalicylic acid and bisoprolol), 
while he remained hemodinamically, and apart from one non sustained ventricular 
tachycardia immediately after admission, also rhythmically stable. During his 
stay in hospital we observed the typical evolution and regression of rash while 
the levels of cardiac markers normalised, with patient becoming afebrile the 
third day. Before dismission a control echocardiograph showed improvement of 
contractile function, ejection fraction improved to 65%, but also signs of mild 
pericarditis were recorded. Since the patient had no discomfort and was in a 
very good shape, he was dismissed from hospital with ibuprofen 400 mg twice a 
day as therapy. Two months later, the patient was readmitted for control. In the 
mean time he had no discomfort, all laboratory and the physical examination 
findings were normal, as well as the ECG. Echocardiogram showed normal 
contractility, systolic and diastolic function. Cardiac stress testing and 
coronary angiography both ruled out a coronary heart disease. Diagnosis of 
myocarditis in this case was made based on echocardiogram, anamnestic data and 
on the typical clinical presentation of an acute varicella zoster virus 
infection, and was serologically confirmed by ELISA test. Therapy with NSAID was 
started immediately and because of favorable development of the disease we did 
not perform myocardial biopsy. During second hospitalization an eventual 
coronary heart disease was ruled out by coronary angiography. Due to its rarity 
there are no guidelines regarding therapy of varicella myocarditis, but there is 
a consensus that these patients should receive intensive care unit. The basis of 
the therapy are certainly the NSAIDs, but also a combination of acyclovir and 
hyperimmunoglobulins has been reported which in this mild case was not 
necessary. With this report we want to point out that varicella zoster virus can 
cause myopericarditis in immunocompetent adults, which must be taken into 
consideration in differential diagnosis, and that an early diagnosis and 
adequate therapy can help achieve a fast and complete recovery.

PMID: 20034334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: MACROLIDE ANTIBIOTIC & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Atherosclerosis. 2005 Sep;182(1):87-95. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2005.02.007. Epub 2005 Apr 1.

Roxithromycin is an inhibitor of human coronary artery smooth muscle cells 
proliferation: a potential ability to prevent coronary heart disease.

Tomita H(1), Osanai T, Toki T, Maeda N, Murakami R, Chen Z, Yamabe H, Osawa H, 
Yasujima M, Okumura K.

Author information:
(1)The Second Department of Internal Medicine, Hirosaki University School of 
Medicine, Hirosaki, Japan.

Roxithromycin (RXM), a macrolide antibiotic, is used in clinical trials to 
address secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. However, the effects of 
RXM on human coronary artery smooth muscle cells (CASMC) proliferation remain 
unclear. Human CASMC were stimulated with growth medium containing 5% fetal 
bovine serum and growth factors. RXM at 1 or 10 microg/ml, which are relevant to 
the therapeutic plasma levels, significantly suppressed mitogen-induced CASMC 
proliferation, assessed by WST-1 assay and cell counting. Flow cytometry 
analysis demonstrated that RXM suppressed mitogen-induced G1 to S progression on 
cell cycle. Western blot showed that RXM inhibited phosphorylation of 
retinoblastoma gene products, reduced protein levels of cyclin D1 and A, and 
restored downregulation of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor p27kip1. The 
activities of CDK4 and CDK2 were suppressed by RXM without affecting their 
protein levels. When transfected with both IkappaB kinase alpha and beta 
constructs as nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) activator, CASMC entered S 
phase at 24 h, and RXM inhibited it. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay and 
immunostaining of NF-kappaB p65 demonstrated that RXM inhibited mitogen-induced 
NF-kappaB activation. These results indicate that RXM is an inhibitor of human 
CASMC proliferation through modulating cell cycle regulatory proteins and 
inhibiting NF-kappaB signaling pathway.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2005.02.007
PMID: 16115478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1997 Aug 20;117(19):2786-9.

[Chlamydia pneumoniae infections in Norway].

[Article in Norwegian]

Berdal BP(1), Meidell NK, Scheel O, Anestad G.

Author information:
(1)Forsvarets mikrobiologiske laboratorium, Oslo.

During the last 5-6 years our understanding of Chlamydia pneumoniae has changed 
radically. C. pneumoniae is no longer considered a dangerous, obligatory 
pathogen. Rather, it is a common, highly contagious intracellular opportunist, 
inducing poor immunity and with a tendency to repeated reinfections. At present, 
a possible role in the formation of atheromatous plaques is being discussed. 
There is a significantly higher prevalence of antibodies against C. pneumoniae 
in coronary heart disease patients than in controls. Another unsolved problem is 
that of therapy, since chronic lung infection resists long-term macrolide 
antibiotic treatment. Should additional treatment with cortisone be given? Here 
we clearly need clinical trials before we move in a totally new direction.

PMID: 9312870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Lancet. 1997 Aug 9;350(9075):404-7. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(97)07201-2.

Randomised trial of roxithromycin in non-Q-wave coronary syndromes: ROXIS Pilot 
Study. ROXIS Study Group.

Gurfinkel E(1), Bozovich G, Daroca A, Beck E, Mautner B.

Author information:
(1)Favalore Foundation, Buenos Aires, Argentina. gurfi001@ffinme.edu.ar

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1998 Mar-Apr;128(2):35.
    Lancet. 1997 Aug 9;350(9075):378-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(97)22032-5.
    Lancet. 1997 Oct 4;350(9083):1028; author reply 1029. doi: 
10.1016/S0140-6736(97)26040-X.
    Lancet. 1997 Oct 4;350(9083):1028-9; author reply 1029. doi: 
10.1016/s0140-6736(05)64073-1.
    Lancet. 1997 Oct 4;350(9083):1029-30. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)64075-5.
    Lancet. 1997 Oct 4;350(9083):1030. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)64076-7.

BACKGROUND: There is serological evidence for an association between Chlamydia 
pneumoniae and coronary heart disease. We investigated the hypothesis that an 
antichlamydial macrolide antibiotic, roxithromycin, can prevent or reduce 
recurrent major ischaemic events in patients with unstable angina.
METHODS: The effect of roxithromycin was assessed in a double-blind, randomised, 
prospective, multicentre, parallel-group, placebo-controlled pilot study of 202 
patients with unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. Patients were 
randomly assigned either roxithromycin 150 mg orally twice a day (n = 102) or 
placebo orally twice a day (n = 100). The treatment was for 30 days. Patients 
were followed up for 6 months. We report the primary clinical endpoints (cardiac 
ischaemic death, myocardial infarction, and severe recurrent ischaemia), 
assessed at day 31, in 202 patients on an intention-to-treat basis.
FINDINGS: A statistically significant reduction in the primary composite triple 
endpoint rates was observed in the roxithromycin group: p = 0.032. The rate of 
severe recurrent ischaemia, myocardial infarction, and ischaemic death was 5.4%, 
2.2%, and 2.2% in the placebo group and 1.1%, 0%, and 0%, in the roxithromycin 
group, respectively. No major drug-related adverse effects were observed.
INTERPRETATION: Antichlamydial antibiotics may be useful in therapeutic 
intervention in addition to standard medication in patients with coronary-artery 
disease. Large-scale trials are needed to confirm these preliminary 
observations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(97)07201-2
PMID: 9259655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: LISOFYLLINE & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: PROTON PUMP INHIBITOR & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2025 Feb;73(2):411-421. doi: 10.1111/jgs.19326. Epub 2024
Dec  31.

Proton Pump Inhibitor Use and Incident Cardiovascular Disease in Older 
Postmenopausal Women.

Soliman AI(1), Wactawski-Wende J(1), Millen AE(1), Gray SL(2), Eaton CB(3), 
Hovey KM(1), Andrews CA(4), Shadyab AH(5), Haring B(6), Saquib N(7), Johnson 
KC(8), Allison M(9), Manson JE(10), LaMonte MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Environmental Health, University at Buffalo - 
SUNY, Buffalo, New York, USA.
(2)School of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(3)Department of Family Medicine, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown 
University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(5)Herbert Wertheim School of Public Health and Human Longevity Science, 
University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA.
(6)Department of Medicine, Saarland University Medical Center, Saarbrücken, 
Germany.
(7)College of Medicine, Sulaiman AlRajhi University, Qassim, Saudi Arabia.
(8)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Tennessee Health Science 
Center, Memphis, Tennessee, USA.
(9)Department of Family Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, 
California, USA.
(10)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: Epidemiological studies have been inconsistent regarding an 
association between proton pump inhibitor (PPI) use and risk of primary 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) events.
METHODS: We studied 85,189 postmenopausal women (mean age 63 years at baseline) 
without known CVD at enrollment into the Women's Health Initiative Observational 
Study (1993-1998). PPI use was determined from medication inventories at 
baseline and Year-3. CVD events were physician adjudicated and defined as a 
composite of coronary heart disease, stroke, and CVD mortality. Follow up was 
from baseline to September 2010. Multivariable Cox proportional hazard models 
were used to estimate hazard ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for 
incident CVD according to baseline PPI use (no/yes), use duration (non-user, 
< 1 year, 1-3 years, > 3 years), and time-varying based on updated Year-3 
information. Propensity score adjustment was used to control for residual 
confounding.
RESULTS: At baseline, 1747 (2.1%) women reported using PPIs. During a mean 
follow-up of 11 years, 5778 (6.8%) cases of primary CVD were identified. PPI 
users had significantly higher risk of CVD compared with non-users in the fully 
adjusted model (HR: 1.21, 95% CI: 1.02-1.43), and after propensity score 
adjustment (HR: 1.27, 95% CI: 1.21-1.32). Longer PPI use duration was associated 
with incrementally higher CVD risk (HRs: < 1 year: 1.11, 1-3 years: 1.27, 
> 3 years: 1.33; p for trend = 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: PPI use was associated with higher risk of incident primary CVD in 
older postmenopausal women. These findings underscore the importance of 
guideline-directed PPI use to avoid unwanted adverse events.

© 2025 The American Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.19326
PMCID: PMC11828671
PMID: 39739511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement: All authors 
declare no conflict of interest pertaining to this work.


2. Wiad Lek. 2023;76(11):2372-2377. doi: 10.36740/WLek202311105.

NON-INVASIVE METHODS OF DIAGNOSTICS OF GASTRO-ESOPHAGEAL REFLUX DISEASE IN 
PATIENTS WITH ISCHEMIC HEART DISEASE.

Derbak MA(1), Tovtun RI(1), Horlenko OM(1), Hanych OT(1), Timashev VV(1), Lukach 
PM(2), Hechko M(1).

Author information:
(1)UZHHOROD NATIONAL UNIVERSITY, UZHHOROD, UKRAINE.
(2)COMMUNAL NONPROFIT ENTERPRISE «CENTRAL CITY CLINICAL HOSPITAL» OF UZHHOROD 
CITY COUNCIL, UZHHOROD, UKRAINE.

OBJECTIVE: The aim: To determine the diagnostic value of non-invasive methods of 
GERD diagnosis based on questionnaire data and a diagnostic test with a proton 
pump inhibitor (PPI) with Rabeprazole in patients with coronary heart disease 
(CHD).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Materials and methods: 90 patients were under observation, 
namely, 68 patients with coronary heart disease with concomitant essential 
arterial hyperten¬sion (EAH), 6 patients with coronary artery disease + 
arrhythmias, and 18 - others diseases. All patients were surveyed according to 
the GerdQ questionnaire, followed by PPI testing with Rabeprazole, and body mass 
index (BMI) was calculated for all the patients. A BMI of 18.5-24.9 kg/m2 was 
considered as normal body weight, and a BMI > 24.9 kg/m2 was considered 
overweight.
RESULTS: Results: Based on the results of the questionnaire, it was established 
that the most common complaints typical for GERD were noted by patients with CHD 
in combination with EAH. There were 48 of such patients and, depending on BMI, 
they were divided into 2 groups: 1st group (n=14) - patients with CHD+EAH+GERD 
with normal body weight and 2nd group (n=34) - overweight patients with 
CHD+EAH+GERD. In patients of group 1, typical symptoms of GERD prevailed (in 
71.4% of patients), and in patients group 2, the distribution of typical and 
extra-esophageal symptoms did not differ significantly (52.9% vs. 47.1%). Among 
the extraesophageal manifestations, pain behind the sternum (in the projection 
of the esophagus) was significantly more often recorded in patients of group 1, 
and rhythm disturbances in patients of group 2 (43.8% and 75.0% of patients, 
respectively, p<0.05). The results of the GerdQ questionnaire showed a direct 
relationship between GERD, body weight and symptom score. Patients with 
GERD+normal body weight had a mean score of 6 for classic gastroesophageal 
reflux symptoms, while patients with GERD+increased body weight had a mean score 
of 7. The sensitivity of the questionnaire was 78.7%, and the specificity - 
92.9%. According to the PPI test, in the 1st and 2nd groups, already in the 
first three days, 28.5% and 23.5% of patients noted the disappearance of 
heartburn and after 10 days - 85.7% and 64.7%, respectively. Over the entire 
period, that is, after 14 days of observation, 85.7% of patients in the 1st 
group and 73.5% in the 2nd group noted improvement.
CONCLUSION: Conclusions: It has been established that questionnaires based on 
the GerdQ questionnaire followed by a PPI test with Rabeprazole in patients with 
coronary heart disease combined with essential arterial hypertension have a high 
diagnostic value and can be used for early diagnosis and effective treatment of 
GERD.

DOI: 10.36740/WLek202311105
PMID: 38112351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Clin Case Rep. 2023 Nov 15;11(11):e8189. doi: 10.1002/ccr3.8189. eCollection 
2023 Nov.

Omeprazole was safely reused in a rhabdomyolysis patient associated with proton 
pump inhibitors: A case report.

Wang Z(1), Shen J(2), Zhang L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Wusong Branch Zhongshan Hospital Affiliated to 
Fudan University Shanghai China.
(2)Department of General Medicine, Wusong Branch Zhongshan Hospital Affiliated 
to Fudan University Shanghai China.

Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are commonly used in the clinical treatment of 
abnormal gastric acid secretion and gastric acid related diseases. There are 
disputes about blood purification and PPIs reuse in patients with PPIs-induced 
rhabdomyolysis. Herein we reported an 84-year-old woman with a 10-year history 
of coronary heart disease and gastric acid. After 18 days of omeprazole therapy, 
the blood myoglobin of the patient rose progressively. Laboratory examination 
confirmed rhabdomyolysis, and PPIs-induced rhabdomyolysis was considered. 
Atorvastatin was initially discontinued. Additionally, omeprazole was altered to 
iprazole. Since blood myoglobin continued to exceed the highest value 
identified, continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) and hemoperfusion (HP) 
were administrated. When PPIs-induced rhabdomyolysis was considered, iprazole 
was discontinued. Two days after discontinuation of iprazole, blood myoglobin 
continuously decreased. After rhabdomyolysis was resolved, omeprazole was 
reused, and rhabdomyolysis did not reoccur. PPIs in combination with statins 
increase the risk of rhabdomyolysis. In the present case, switching to another 
PPIs or CRRT and HP therapy did not alleviate rhabdomyolysis. Rhabdomyolysis 
caused by statins is countless, but other reasons cannot be overlooked. In any 
case, the removal of etiology is the primary component of the treatment of 
rhabdomyolysis. When rhabdomyolysis is alleviated, PPIs can be reused safely 
under close monitoring.

© 2023 The Authors. Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ccr3.8189
PMCID: PMC10651949
PMID: 38028048


4. Ther Adv Cardiovasc Dis. 2021 Jan-Dec;15:17539447211058892. doi: 
10.1177/17539447211058892.

Leading 20 drug-drug interactions, polypharmacy, and analysis of the nature of 
risk factors due to QT interval prolonging drug use and potentially 
inappropriate psychotropic use in elderly psychiatry outpatients.

Das B(1), Ramasubbu SK(2), Agnihotri A(2), Kumar B(3), Rawat VS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), 
Rishikesh, Virbhadra Road, Rishikesh 249 203, Uttarakhand, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), 
Rishikesh, Rishikesh, India.
(3)Department of Cardiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), 
Rishikesh, Rishikesh, India.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), 
Rishikesh, Rishikesh, India.

BACKGROUND: Psychotropic medications extend corrected QT (QTc) period in the 
electrocardiogram (ECG). Psychiatric patients exposed to ⩾1 psychotropic 
medication(s) represent a group with marked probability of drug-activated 
QTc-prolongation. Prolonged QTc interval in elderly patients (age > 60 years) is 
connected to greater risk of all-cause and coronary heart disease deaths. This 
study aimed at investigating pattern of utilization of QTc-interval protracting 
medications, QT-extending drug interactions, and prevalence of QTc-interval 
extending hazard factors in elderly patients.
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional, prospective study at the Psychiatry OPD at 
All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, Uttarakhand, India 
from 1 October 2017 to 30 August 2019 employing the pertinent prescriptions.
RESULTS: A total of 832 elderly patients (age 60 years or more) visiting the 
Psychiatry OPD during the aforementioned study duration were investigated. About 
420 (50.5%) patients were males while 412 (49.5%) were females. Of the 832 
patients, 588 (70.7%) were using interacting agents with capacity to produce 
TdP. Almost 1152 interacting torsadogenic medication pairs were unraveled. As 
per AzCERT/CredibleMeds Classification, 1016 (48.8%), 724 (34.8%), and 248 (12%) 
agents with potential to interact were identified with 'known', 'possible', and 
'conditional risk of TdP', respectively. The common interacting medications 
belonged to antidepressant (288), proton pump inhibitor (364), antipsychotic 
(340), antinausea (184), antimicrobial (156), and H2 receptor antagonist (60) 
therapeutic categories. The all-inclusive frequency of potentially inappropriate 
psychotropic (PIP) agents administered was 62% (1343/2166) with Beers Criteria 
2019, and 46% (997/2166) with STOPP Criteria 2015.
CONCLUSION: Many geriatric patients were administered drugs and drug 
combinations with heightened proclivity toward QT-interval prolongation. 
Furthermore, reliable evidence-based online drug knowledge resources, such as 
AzCERT/CredibleMeds Drug Lists, Medscape Drug Interactions Checker, Epocrates 
Online Interaction Check, and Drugs.com Drug Interactions Checker, can 
facilitate clinical professionals in selecting drugs for psychiatric patients. A 
wise choice of medications is imperative to preclude serious adverse sequelae. 
Therefore, we need to exigently embrace precautionary safety means, be vigilant, 
and forestall QT-extension and TdP in clinical environments.

DOI: 10.1177/17539447211058892
PMCID: PMC8641120
PMID: 34841978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: The authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


5. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 2022 Dec;36(6):1121-1128. doi: 
10.1007/s10557-021-07219-6. Epub 2021 Jul 9.

Proton Pump Inhibitor and Clopidogrel Use After Percutaneous Coronary 
Intervention and Risk of Major Cardiovascular Events.

Maret-Ouda J(1)(2), Santoni G(3), Xie S(3), Rosengren A(4), Lagergren J(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Upper Gastrointestinal Surgery, Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, 
Karolinska Institutet, Retzius Street 13a, 4th Floor, 17177, Stockholm, Sweden. 
John.Maret-Ouda@ki.se.
(2)Centre for Clinical Research Sörmland, Uppsala University, Eskilstuna, 
Sweden. John.Maret-Ouda@ki.se.
(3)Upper Gastrointestinal Surgery, Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, 
Karolinska Institutet, Retzius Street 13a, 4th Floor, 17177, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Institute of Medicine, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)School of Cancer and Pharmaceutical Sciences, King's College London, London, 
UK.

Comment in
    Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 2022 Dec;36(6):1247-1248. doi: 
10.1007/s10557-022-07395-z.

PURPOSE: Due to shared hepatic metabolism, concomitant medication with a proton 
pump inhibitor (PPI) and clopidogrel might reduce the effectiveness of 
clopidogrel in the prevention of cardiovascular events after percutaneous 
coronary intervention (PCI). We aimed to examine the risk of major 
cardiovascular events after PCI comparing patients who used clopidogrel together 
with PPI with those who used clopidogrel alone.
METHODS: This Swedish nationwide cohort study included patients who received 
clopidogrel after primary PCI in 2005-2019. Patients were followed for up to 
12 months after PCI. Data were retrieved from the Swedish Prescribed Drug 
Registry, Patient Registry, Cancer Registry, and Cause of Death Registry. 
Multivariable Cox regression provided hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence 
intervals (CIs) for cardiovascular events comparing PPI users (exposed) with 
non-users of PPI (non-exposed). The HRs were adjusted for sex, age, comorbidity, 
calendar period, obesity, diabetes, anti-diabetic medication, tobacco-related 
diseases, hypertension, and congestive heart failure.
RESULTS: The cohort included 99,836 patients who received clopidogrel after 
primary PCI. Among these, 35,772 (35.8%) received concomitant PPI. Compared to 
non-users, PPI users had increased adjusted HRs of all study outcomes, i.e., the 
main outcome myocardial infarction (HR = 1.23, 95% CI 1.15-1.32) and the 
secondary outcomes coronary heart disease (HR = 1.28, 95% CI 1.24-1.33), stroke 
(HR = 1.21, 95% CI 1.05-1.40), and death due to coronary heart disease 
(HR = 1.52, 95% CI 1.37-1.69). The results were similar in analyses including 
both primary and secondary PCIs.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients who receive clopidogrel after PCI, concomitant use of 
PPI seems to increase the risk of major cardiovascular events.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10557-021-07219-6
PMCID: PMC9652231
PMID: 34241731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

=== Drug: SCH-708980 & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: SIROLIMUS & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. J Pers Med. 2025 Feb 2;15(2):60. doi: 10.3390/jpm15020060.

The Design and Feasibility of Optimal Treatment for Coronary Drug-Eluting Stent 
In-Stent Restenosis (OPEN-ISR)-A Prospective, Randomised, Multicentre Clinical 
Trial.

Kulyassa PM(1), Németh BT(1), Hizoh I(1), Jankó LK(2), Ruzsa Z(2), Jambrik Z(2), 
Balázs BB(1), Becker D(1), Merkely B(1), Édes IF(1).

Author information:
(1)Heart and Vascular Centre, Semmelweis University, 1122 Budapest, Hungary.
(2)Invasive Cardiology Division, Department of Internal Medicine, University of 
Szeged, 6720 Szeged, Hungary.

Introduction: Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug-eluting stents 
(DES) is a cornerstone of the management of ischemic heart disease. However, 
in-stent restenosis (ISR) remains a significant clinical challenge, occurring in 
approximately 5-10% of patients undergoing PCI. This study is designed to 
compare the efficacy and safety of the primary therapeutic approaches for 
DES-ISR, specifically drug-coated balloons (DCBs)-paclitaxel-coated balloons 
(PCBs) and sirolimus-coated balloons (SCBs)-with a new-generation 
everolimus-eluting stent (EES), contributing to the evolving field of 
personalized medicine. Methods and Analysis: This prospective, multicentre, 
randomised, non-inferiority trial aims to enroll 150 patients with DES-ISR, who 
will be randomised into one of the following: SCB, PCB, or EES. The primary 
endpoint comparing DCB and EES is late lumen loss (LLL) at 6 months, as measured 
by quantitative coronary angiography (QCA). Secondary endpoints comparing the 
three arms include a device-oriented composite endpoint, intraluminal gain, 
optical coherence tomography (OCT) measured LLL, and correlations between LLL 
and quantitative flow ratio (QFR). The primary endpoint will be analysed using a 
non-inferiority design, with a margin set at 0.25 mm, for which the sample size 
was calculated. Statistical analysis of the primary endpoint will be conducted 
on an intention-to-treat basis with a one-tailed Mann-Whitney U test with a 
significance level of 95. Secondary endpoints will be analysed via superiority 
testing using ANOVA, the Kruskal-Wallis test, logistic regression, or Fisher's 
exact test, as appropriate. Ethics and Dissemination: The study protocol has 
been approved by the Medical Devices Department of the Hungarian National 
Institute of Pharmacy and Nutrition, ensuring compliance with ethical standards 
as outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki. All investigators declare no 
conflicts of interest related to this study. The trial is registered in 
ClinicalTrials.gov under the ID: NCT04862052.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm15020060
PMCID: PMC11856948
PMID: 39997337

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


2. AsiaIntervention. 2023 Sep 21;9(2):133-142. doi: 10.4244/AIJ-D-22-00051. 
eCollection 2023 Sep.

Safety and efficacy of a novel 3D-printed bioresorbable sirolimus-eluting 
scaffold in a porcine model.

Shi Q(1), Zhang B(1), Wang X(1), Fei J(1), Qin Q(1), Zheng B(1)(2), Chen M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, Peking University First Hospital, 
Beijing, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: The effect of 3D-printed bioresorbable vascular scaffolds (BRS) in 
coronary heart disease has not been clarified.
AIMS: We aimed to compare the safety and efficacy of 3D-printed BRS with that of 
metallic sirolimus-eluting stents (SES).
METHODS: Thirty-two BRS and 32 SES were implanted into 64 porcine coronary 
arteries. Quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) and optical coherence 
tomography (OCT) were performed at 14, 28, 97, and 189 days post-implantation. 
Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and histopathological analyses were performed 
at each assessment.
RESULTS: All stents/scaffolds were successfully implanted. All animals survived 
for the duration of the study. QCA showed the two devices had a similar 
stent/scaffold-to-artery ratio and acute percent recoil. OCT showed the lumen 
area (LA) and scaffold/stent area (SA) of the BRS were significantly smaller 
than those of the SES at 14 and 28 days post-implantation (14-day LA: BRS vs SES 
4.52±0.41 mm2 vs 5.69±1.11 mm2; p=0.03; 14-day SA: BRS vs SES 4.99±0.45 mm2 vs 
6.11±1.06 mm2; p=0.03; 28-day LA: BRS vs SES 2.93±1.03 mm2 vs 4.82±0.74 mm2; 
p=0.003; 28-day SA: BRS vs SES 3.86±0.98 mm2 vs 5.75±0.71 mm2; p=0.03). Both the 
LA and SA of the BRS increased over time and were similar to those of the SES at 
the 97-day and 189-day assessments. SEM and histomorphological analyses showed 
no significant between-group differences in endothelialisation at each 
assessment.
CONCLUSIONS: The novel 3D-printed BRS showed safety and efficacy similar to that 
of SES in a porcine model. The BRS also showed a long-term positive remodelling 
effect.

DOI: 10.4244/AIJ-D-22-00051
PMCID: PMC10507451
PMID: 37736208

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


3. Front Cardiovasc Med. 2021 Jun 14;8:696287. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2021.696287. 
eCollection 2021.

Acute Mechanical Performance of Magmaris vs. DESolve Bioresorbable Scaffolds in 
a Real-World Scenario.

Boeder NF(1), Dörr O(1), Koepp T(1), Blachutzik F(1), Achenbach S(2), Elsässer 
A(3), Hamm CW(1)(4)(5), Nef HM(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Clinic I, University Hospital of Giessen, Giessen, Germany.
(2)Medical Clinic 2, University Hospital of Erlangen, Erlangen, Germany.
(3)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital of Oldenburg, Oldeburg, 
Germany.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Kerckhoff Heart and Thorax Center, Bad Nauheim, 
Germany.
(5)German Centre for Cardiovascular Research, RheinMain Chapter, Frankfurt am 
Main, Germany.

Background: After the bioresorbable PLLA-based vascular scaffold (Absorb BVS) 
was taken from the market due to its high adverse event rates, a magnesium-based 
scaffold (Magmaris) was introduced. Objective: To compare the acute performance 
of the sirolimus-eluting magnesium alloy Magmaris scaffold with that of the 
novolimus-eluting PLLA-based DESolve scaffold in terms of appropriate scaffold 
deployment using optical coherence tomography (OCT). Methods and Results: Data 
from the final OCT pullback of 98 patients were included (19 Magmaris, 79 
DESolve) and analyzed at 1-mm intervals. The following indices were calculated: 
mean and minimal area, residual area stenosis, incomplete strut apposition, 
tissue prolapse, eccentricity index, symmetry index, strut fracture, and edge 
dissection. OCT showed a minimum lumen area for Magmaris vs. DESolve of 6.6 ± 
1.6 vs. 6.0 ± 1.9 (p = 0.06). Scaffolds with residual area stenosis >20% were 
predominantly seen in the DESolve group (15.8 vs. 46.8%; p = 0.01). The mean 
eccentricity index did differ significantly (0.74 ± 0.06 vs. 0.63 ± 0.09; p < 
0.001). No fractures were observed for Magmaris scaffolds, but 15.2% were 
documented for DESolve BRS (p < 0.001). Incomplete scaffold apposition area was 
significantly higher in the DESolve group (0.01 ± 0.02 vs. 1.05 ± 2.32 mm2; p < 
0.001). Conclusion: This is the first study to compare the acute mechanical 
performance between Magmaris and DESolve in a real-world setting. The acute 
mechanical performance of Magmaris BRS seems to be superior to that of DESolve 
BRS, whereas OCT showed a good acute mechanical performance for both BRS in 
terms of generally accepted imaging criteria.

Copyright © 2021 Boeder, Dörr, Koepp, Blachutzik, Achenbach, Elsässer, Hamm and 
Nef.

DOI: 10.3389/fcvm.2021.696287
PMCID: PMC8236697
PMID: 34195239

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


4. Ir J Med Sci. 2020 Aug;189(3):907-915. doi: 10.1007/s11845-020-02176-9. Epub 
2020 Jan 27.

Occurrence and predictive factors of restenosis in coronary heart disease 
patients underwent sirolimus-eluting stent implantation.

Zhao J(1), Wang X(1), Wang H(1), Zhao Y(1), Fu X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, China. fuwengjingk6@163.com.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to investigate the occurrence and predictive 
factors of restenosis in coronary heart disease (CHD) patients underwent 
percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with sirolimus-eluting stent (SES).
METHODS: Demographic data, clinical features, and laboratory tests of 398 CHD 
patients underwent PCI with SES were retrospectively reviewed. Coronary 
angiography was performed to evaluate coronary stenosis before PCI and in-stent 
restenosis at 1-year follow-up.
RESULTS: There were 37 (9.3%) patients suffered restenosis, but 361 (90.7%) 
patients did not develop restenosis at 1-year follow-up. Demographic 
characteristic (age), cardiovascular risk factors (hypertension and 
hyperuricemia), biochemical indexes (fasting blood-glucose, total cholesterol, 
low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and high-sensitivity C-reactive 
protein (HsCRP)), cardiac function index (cardiac troponin I), lesion features 
(multivessel artery lesions, target lesion at left circumflex artery (LCX), two 
target lesions and length of target lesion), and operation procedure (length of 
stent) were correlated with higher restenosis risk. Moreover, age, hypertension, 
diabetes mellitus, LDL-C, HsCRP, and target lesion at LCX were independent 
predictive factors for raised restenosis risk. Based on these independent 
predictive factors, we established a restenosis risk prediction model, and 
receiver-operating characteristic curves displayed that this model exhibited an 
excellent predictive value for higher restenosis risk (areas under the curve 
0.953 (95% CI 0.926-0.981)).
CONCLUSION: Our findings provide a new insight into the prediction for 
restenosis in CHD patients underwent PCI with SES.

DOI: 10.1007/s11845-020-02176-9
PMID: 31989420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. BMJ Open. 2019 Dec 17;9(12):e033774. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-033774.

Prospective multicentre open-label randomised controlled trial of 3-month versus 
12-month dual antiplatelet therapy after implantation of the new generation 
biodegradable polymer sirolimus TARGET-eluting coronary stent: protocol of the 
TARGET DAPT trial.

Yang H(#)(1), Zhang F(#)(1), Yang J(#)(1), Zheng M(2), Cao R(2), Dai Y(1), Li 
C(1), Yao K(1), Qian J(1), Ge J(3); TARGET DAPT trial investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University; Shanghai 
Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai MicroPort Medical Group Co, Ltd, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University; Shanghai 
Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, Shanghai, China jbge@zs-hospital.sh.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with aspirin and thienopyridine 
is required after placement of coronary stents to prevent thrombotic 
complications. However, current recommendation for duration of DAPT remains 
controversial. Firehawk is a biodegradable polymer applied to recessed abluminal 
grooves, sirolimus target-eluting stent associated with early excellent healing 
response and almost complete strut coverage, as well as possibly reduced 
myocardial ischaemic events. But the optimal DAPT duration for such a new 
generation stent is less known. Therefore, the present trial seeks to evaluate 
the safety and efficacy of 3-month versus 12-month DAPT in broad patients 
receiving Firehawk stents.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The TARGET DAPT study is designed to access the benefits 
and risks of short-term (3 months) versus long-term (12 months) DAPT in 
preventing stent thrombosis or major adverse cardiovascular and cerebrovascular 
events in subjects undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention for the 
treatment of coronary artery obstructive lesions. The TARGET DAPT trial is a 
large, prospective, multicentre, randomised (1:1) non-inferiority clinical trial 
that will enrol 2446 subjects treated with Firehawk stents. The primary endpoint 
is net adverse clinical and cerebral events, a composite of all-cause death, 
myocardial infarction, cerebral vascular accident and major bleeding (BARC 2,3 
or 5) at 18 months clinical follow-up postindex procedure.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethics approval was obtained from the Ethics Committee 
of Zhongshan Hospital, Shanghai. The reference number is B2018-146R. Study 
findings will be made available to interested participants. Study results will 
be submitted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal. Also the protocol will 
be submitted and approved by the institutional Ethics Committee at each 
participating clinical centre.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT03008083.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-033774
PMCID: PMC6937074
PMID: 31852711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: JG has received research 
grants and speaker fees from MicroPort. HY and FZ have received speaker fees 
from MicroPort. MZ and RC are Microport employees.

=== Drug: SHO-SAIKO-TO & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: RABEPRAZOLE & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Wiad Lek. 2023;76(11):2372-2377. doi: 10.36740/WLek202311105.

NON-INVASIVE METHODS OF DIAGNOSTICS OF GASTRO-ESOPHAGEAL REFLUX DISEASE IN 
PATIENTS WITH ISCHEMIC HEART DISEASE.

Derbak MA(1), Tovtun RI(1), Horlenko OM(1), Hanych OT(1), Timashev VV(1), Lukach 
PM(2), Hechko M(1).

Author information:
(1)UZHHOROD NATIONAL UNIVERSITY, UZHHOROD, UKRAINE.
(2)COMMUNAL NONPROFIT ENTERPRISE «CENTRAL CITY CLINICAL HOSPITAL» OF UZHHOROD 
CITY COUNCIL, UZHHOROD, UKRAINE.

OBJECTIVE: The aim: To determine the diagnostic value of non-invasive methods of 
GERD diagnosis based on questionnaire data and a diagnostic test with a proton 
pump inhibitor (PPI) with Rabeprazole in patients with coronary heart disease 
(CHD).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Materials and methods: 90 patients were under observation, 
namely, 68 patients with coronary heart disease with concomitant essential 
arterial hyperten¬sion (EAH), 6 patients with coronary artery disease + 
arrhythmias, and 18 - others diseases. All patients were surveyed according to 
the GerdQ questionnaire, followed by PPI testing with Rabeprazole, and body mass 
index (BMI) was calculated for all the patients. A BMI of 18.5-24.9 kg/m2 was 
considered as normal body weight, and a BMI > 24.9 kg/m2 was considered 
overweight.
RESULTS: Results: Based on the results of the questionnaire, it was established 
that the most common complaints typical for GERD were noted by patients with CHD 
in combination with EAH. There were 48 of such patients and, depending on BMI, 
they were divided into 2 groups: 1st group (n=14) - patients with CHD+EAH+GERD 
with normal body weight and 2nd group (n=34) - overweight patients with 
CHD+EAH+GERD. In patients of group 1, typical symptoms of GERD prevailed (in 
71.4% of patients), and in patients group 2, the distribution of typical and 
extra-esophageal symptoms did not differ significantly (52.9% vs. 47.1%). Among 
the extraesophageal manifestations, pain behind the sternum (in the projection 
of the esophagus) was significantly more often recorded in patients of group 1, 
and rhythm disturbances in patients of group 2 (43.8% and 75.0% of patients, 
respectively, p<0.05). The results of the GerdQ questionnaire showed a direct 
relationship between GERD, body weight and symptom score. Patients with 
GERD+normal body weight had a mean score of 6 for classic gastroesophageal 
reflux symptoms, while patients with GERD+increased body weight had a mean score 
of 7. The sensitivity of the questionnaire was 78.7%, and the specificity - 
92.9%. According to the PPI test, in the 1st and 2nd groups, already in the 
first three days, 28.5% and 23.5% of patients noted the disappearance of 
heartburn and after 10 days - 85.7% and 64.7%, respectively. Over the entire 
period, that is, after 14 days of observation, 85.7% of patients in the 1st 
group and 73.5% in the 2nd group noted improvement.
CONCLUSION: Conclusions: It has been established that questionnaires based on 
the GerdQ questionnaire followed by a PPI test with Rabeprazole in patients with 
coronary heart disease combined with essential arterial hypertension have a high 
diagnostic value and can be used for early diagnosis and effective treatment of 
GERD.

DOI: 10.36740/WLek202311105
PMID: 38112351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Clin Appl Thromb Hemost. 2022 Jan-Dec;28:10760296221130746. doi: 
10.1177/10760296221130746.

Effect of Rabeprazole and Rebamipide in the Treatment of Upper Gastrointestinal 
Hemorrhage Associated with Dual Antiplatelet Therapy in Elderly Patients with 
Coronary Heart Disease.

Jia RJ(1), Wang XP(1), Zhang ZH(1), Cui HH(1), Qin R(1), Du DY(2), Liu Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, The 305 Hospital of Chinese 
PLA, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, The 305 Hospital of Chinese PLA, Beijing, China.

To investigate the therapeutic effect of rabeprazole and rebamipide on patient 
age over 60 with dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT)-related upper gastrointestinal 
hemorrhage following percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). A total of 360 
patients age over 60 undergoing PCI were recruited for antiplatelet therapy 
involving a combined treatment of aspirin (100 mg/d) and clopidogrel (75 mg/d). 
The enrolled patients were divided into 4 groups: the control group, the 
rabeprazole group, the rebamipide group, and the rabeprazole + rebamipide group. 
The incidence and severity of any upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage and the 
incidence of major adverse cardiac events (MACEs) were observed 6 months after 
the operation. The incidence of upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage in the 4 
groups was 11.1%, 3.3%, 8.9%, and 1.1%, respectively, and the differences were 
statistically significant (P < 0.05). On comparing the groups, the differences 
between the control group and the rabeprazole group, those between the control 
group and the rabeprazole + rebamipide group, and those between the rebamipide 
group and the rabeprazole + rebamipide group were found to be statistically 
significant (P < 0.05). The severity of the upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage in 
the rabeprazole group and the rabeprazole + rebamipide group was significantly 
lower than that in the control group. The 4 groups exhibited no significant 
differences in the incidence of MACEs (P > 0.05). For patients age over 60 
receiving DAPT following PCI in our study population, treatment with rabeprazole 
or a combination of rabeprazole and rebamipide could reduce the risk of upper 
gastrointestinal hemorrhage, as well as reduce its severity.

DOI: 10.1177/10760296221130746
PMCID: PMC9703470
PMID: 36411982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


3. World J Gastrointest Pharmacol Ther. 2015 May 6;6(2):17-21. doi: 
10.4292/wjgpt.v6.i2.17.

Clinical relevance of clopidogrel-proton pump inhibitors interaction.

Bouziana SD(1), Tziomalos K(1).

Author information:
(1)Stella D Bouziana, Konstantinos Tziomalos, First Propedeutic Department of 
Internal Medicine, Medical School, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, AHEPA 
Hospital, 54636 Thessaloniki, Greece.

Clopidogrel is a widely used antiplatelet agent for the secondary prevention of 
cardiovascular events in patients with stable coronary heart disease, acute 
coronary syndromes and ischemic stroke. Even though clopidogrel is safer than 
aspirin in terms of risk for gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, the elderly, and 
patients with a history of prior GI bleeding, with Helicobacter pylori infection 
or those who are also treated with aspirin, anticoagulants, corticosteroids or 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are at high risk for GI complications when 
treated with clopidogrel. Accordingly, proton pump inhibitors are frequently 
administered in combination with clopidogrel to reduce the risk for GI bleeding. 
Nevertheless, pharmacodynamic studies suggest that omeprazole might attenuate 
the antiplatelet effect of clopidogrel. However, in observational studies, this 
interaction does not appear to translate into increased cardiovascular risk in 
patients treated with this combination. Moreover, in the only randomized, 
double-blind study that assessed the cardiovascular implications of combining 
clopidogrel and omeprazole, patients treated with clopidogrel/omeprazole 
combination had reduced risk for GI events and similar risk for cardiovascular 
events than patients treated with clopidogrel and placebo. However, the 
premature interruption of the study and the lack of power analysis in terms of 
the cardiovascular endpoint do not allow definite conclusions regarding the 
cardiovascular safety of clopidogrel/omeprazole combination. Other proton pump 
inhibitors do not appear to interact with clopidogrel. Nevertheless, given the 
limitations of existing observational and interventional studies, the decision 
to administer proton pump inhibitors to patients treated with clopidogrel should 
be individualized based on the patient's bleeding and cardiovascular risk.

DOI: 10.4292/wjgpt.v6.i2.17
PMCID: PMC4419089
PMID: 25949846

=== Drug: AMOXICILLIN ANHYDROUS & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: CLARITHROMYCIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Front Cardiovasc Med. 2022 Oct 26;9:1018194. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.1018194. 
eCollection 2022.

No dose-response relationship of clarithromycin utilization on cardiovascular 
outcomes in patients with stable coronary heart disease: Analysis of Taiwan's 
national health insurance claims data.

Yu BH(1), Chen YC(2)(3), Li YD(3)(4), Chiou WY(1)(3), Chen YC(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dalin Tzu Chi Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi 
Medical Foundation, Chiayi, Taiwan.
(2)Division of Hepato-Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Dalin 
Tzu Chi Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical Foundation, Chiayi, Taiwan.
(3)School of Medicine, Tzu Chi University, Hualien, Taiwan.
(4)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Dalin Tzu Chi 
Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical Foundation, Chiayi, Taiwan.
(5)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Dalin Tzu Chi 
Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical Foundation, Chiayi, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Clarithromycin is widely used to treat various bacterial infections 
and has been reported to have potential cardiovascular risk. However, it is 
uncertain whether this association was dose dependent and confounded by 
indication bias in patients with stable coronary heart disease (CHD).
METHODS: This cohort study retrospectively analyzed a national health insurance 
claims data from Taiwan's 2005 Longitudinal Generation Tracking Database. We 
used a new-user design and 1:1 propensity score matching. A total of 9,631 
eligible clarithromycin users and 9,631 non-users in 2004-2015 were subject to 
final analysis. All patients were followed-up after receiving clarithromycin or 
on the matched corresponding date until occurrence of cardiovascular morbidity 
in the presence of competing mortality, all-cause and cause-specific mortality, 
or through the end of 2015. The effect of cumulative dose, exposure duration, 
and indications of clarithromycin on cardiovascular outcomes were also 
addressed.
RESULTS: Clarithromycin use, compared with non-use, was associated with higher 
risk for all-cause [adjusted hazard ratios (aHR), 1.43; 95% confidence interval, 
1.29-1.58], cardiovascular (1.35; 1.09-1.67), and non-cardiovascular (1.45; 
1.29-1.63) mortality, but not for overall cardiovascular morbidity. Further 
analysis of individual cardiovascular morbidity demonstrated major risk for 
heart events (1.25; 1.04-1.51) in clarithromycin users than non-users. However, 
there was no relationship of cumulative dose, exposure duration, and indications 
of clarithromycin on cardiovascular outcomes. Analyses of the effects over time 
showed that clarithromycin increased cardiovascular morbidity (1.21; 1.01-1.45), 
especially heart events (1.39; 1.10-1.45), all-cause (1.57; 1.38-1.80), 
cardiovascular (1.58; 1.20-2.08), and non-cardiovascular (1.57; 1.35-1.83) 
mortality during the first 3 years. Thereafter, clarithromycin effect on all 
outcomes almost dissipated.
CONCLUSION: Clarithromycin use was associated with increased risk for short-term 
cardiovascular morbidity (especially, heart events) and mortality without a 
dose-response relationship in patients with stable CHD, which was not dose 
dependent and confounded by indications. Hence, patients with stable CHD while 
receiving clarithromycin should watch for these short-term potential risks.

Copyright © 2022 Yu, Chen, Li, Chiou and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.1018194
PMCID: PMC9645004
PMID: 36386302

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


2. BMC Gastroenterol. 2022 Sep 12;22(1):416. doi: 10.1186/s12876-022-02498-1.

A nationwide cohort study suggests clarithromycin-based therapy for Helicobacter 
pylori eradication is safe in patients with stable coronary heart disease and 
subsequent peptic ulcer disease.

Chen YC(1)(2), Li YD(2)(3), Yu BH(4), Chen YC(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hepato-Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Dalin 
Tzu Chi Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical Foundation, Chiayi, Taiwan.
(2)School of Medicine, Tzu Chi University, Hualien, Taiwan.
(3)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Dalin Tzu Chi 
Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical Foundation, Chiayi, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dalin Tzu Chi Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi 
Medical Foundation, Chiayi, Taiwan.
(5)School of Medicine, Tzu Chi University, Hualien, Taiwan. alineycc@gmail.com.
(6)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Dalin Tzu Chi 
Hospital, Buddhist Tzu Chi Medical Foundation, No. 2, Minsheng Rd., Dalin 
Township, Chiayi, Chiayi County, 622, Taiwan. alineycc@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Clarithromycin-based therapy is important for Helicobacter pylori 
eradication treatment. However, clarithromycin may increase cardiovascular risk. 
Hence, we investigated the association between clarithromycin use and outcomes 
in adults with stable coronary heart disease (CHD) and subsequent peptic ulcer 
disease (PUD).
METHODS: This nationwide cohort study used a national health insurance database 
to screen 298,417 Taiwanese residents who were diagnosed with coronary heart 
disease from 2001 to 2015 for eligibility in the study and to evaluate select 
eligible patients with CHD-PUD from 2004 to 2015. Data were obtained from new 
users of clarithromycin (n = 4183) and nonusers of clarithromycin (n = 24,752) 
during follow-up. A total of 4070 eligible clarithromycin users and 4070 
nonusers were subject to final analysis by 1:1 propensity score matching. 
Participants were followed up after receiving clarithromycin or at the 
corresponding date until the occurrence of cardiovascular morbidity in the 
presence of competing mortality, overall mortality and cardiovascular mortality, 
or through the end of 2015. The incidence rates and risks of overall mortality 
and cardiovascular outcomes were evaluated. The associations between 
clarithromycin and arrhythmia risk, as well as its dose and duration and overall 
mortality and cardiovascular outcomes were also addressed.
RESULTS: Clarithromycin users were associated with adjusted hazard ratios of 
1.08 (95% confidence interval, 0.93-1.24; 21.5 compared with 21.2 per 1000 
patient-years) for overall mortality, 0.95 (0.57-1.59; 1.5 compared with 1.8 per 
1000 patient-years) for cardiovascular mortality, and 0.94 (0.89-1.09; 19.6 
compared with 20.2 per 1000 patient-years) for cardiovascular morbidity in the 
presence of competing mortality, as compared with nonusers. We found no 
relationship between dose and duration of clarithromycin and overall mortality 
and cardiovascular outcomes and no increased risk of arrhythmia during follow-up 
period. After inclusion of arrhythmia events to re-estimate the risks of all 
study outcomes, the results remained insignificant.
CONCLUSION: Concerning overall mortality, cardiovascular mortality, and 
cardiovascular morbidity, our results suggest clarithromycin-based therapy for 
Helicobacter pylori eradication may be safe in patients with stable CHD and 
subsequent PUD.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12876-022-02498-1
PMCID: PMC9469559
PMID: 36096732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


3. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Comput Intell Neurosci. 2022 Jun 16;2022:5607358. doi: 10.1155/2022/5607358. 
eCollection 2022.

Analysis of Microbiological and Clinical Characteristics of Bacterial Infection 
in Patients with Pulmonary Infection.

Duan T(1).

Author information:
(1)The First People's Hospital of Chongqing Liangjiang New Area, Chongqing 
401121, China.

Retraction in
    Comput Intell Neurosci. 2022 Dec 26;2022:9829341. doi: 10.1155/2022/9829341.

OBJECTIVE: Using data investigation, the microbiology of bacterial infection in 
patients with pulmonary infection was discussed, and its clinical 
characteristics were analyzed.
METHODS: The clinical data of 160 patients with pulmonary infection in our 
hospital from March 2019 to March 2021 were collected and analyzed. Blood 
samples were collected and cultured, and the pathogens were identified. The 
distribution, constituent ratio, and drug resistance of pathogens in elderly 
patients with pulmonary infection were analyzed. Logistics regression analysis 
was adopted to analyze the risk factors of pulmonary infection.
RESULTS: Of the 160 patients with pulmonary infection, 107 were males (66.88%) 
and 53 were females (33.13%). The age ranged from 12 to 97 years old, with an 
average of 63.82 ± 12.64 years old. Sevent-six patients (47.50%) were over 65 
years old. Urban patients accounted for 71.88%, and rural patients accounted for 
28.13%, of which workers accounted for 46.25%, and farmers and cadres each 
accounted for about 4%. 85.62% of smokers have smoked for more than 4 years. 
Eighty-five patients had chronic diseases such as coronary heart disease, 
hypertension, diabetes, and cerebrovascular disease. Heart failure occurred in 
10.00%, old tuberculosis in 11.25%, and new tuberculosis in 5.63%. The average 
hospital stay of the patients was 14.93 days, and the improvement rate was 
91.25%. Eleven patients died. Among the 160 patients with pulmonary infection, 
COPD, pneumonia, and lung cancer accounted for the highest proportions, and 
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, bronchitis dilatation, tuberculosis, and 
bronchial asthma also played an important role. Pathogenic bacteria were 
detected in 104 of the 160 elderly patients with pulmonary infection, and the 
detection rate was 65.00%. A total of 444 strains of pathogenic bacteria were 
detected, including 328 strains of Gram-negative bacteria (73.87%, mainly 
Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, and 
Serratia marcescens), 28 strains of Gram-positive bacteria (6.30%, mainly 
Staphylococcus aureus), and 88 strains of fungi (20.00%, mainly Candida 
albicans). Regarding Klebsiella pneumoniae in elderly patients with pulmonary 
infection, the drug resistance rates were 59.72% for amoxicillin-clavulanate 
potassium, 52.78% for ampicillin sodium-sulbactam sodium, and 51.39% for 
cefazolin sodium. Regarding Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the drug resistance rates 
were 29.31% for ticarcillin sodium-potassium clavulanate, 27.59% for 
piperacillin sodium, and 24.14% for gentamicin. Regarding Stenotrophomonas 
maltophilia, the drug resistance rates were 79.55% for ceftazidime, 38.64% for 
chloramphenicol, and 31.82% for levofloxacin. Regarding Serratia marcescens, the 
drug resistance rates from high to low were 74.42% for cefotaxime, 72.09% for 
moxifloxacin, and 69.77% for gentamicin. Regarding Staphylococcus aureus in 
elderly patients with pulmonary infection, the drug resistance rates were 
100.00% for penicillin, 61.54% for erythromycin, 61.54% for clarithromycin, and 
61.54% for azithromycin. Regarding Candida albicans, the drug resistance rates 
from high to low were 22.41% for caspofungin, 15.52% for itraconazole, and 9.09% 
for fluconazole. The results of univariate analysis of pulmonary bacterial 
infection indicated that there were no significant differences in sex and body 
mass index between nonbacterial infection group and bacterial infection group (P 
> 0.05). There were significant differences in terms of dust or harmful gas 
exposure, family member smoking, chronic lung disease history, age, smoking, 
family cooking, hospital stay, and indwelling catheter (P < 0.05). Exposure to 
dust or harmful gases, family cooking, age, history of chronic lung disease, 
indwelling catheter, and length of hospital stay were risk factors for pulmonary 
bacterial infection (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Gram-negative bacteria are the main pathogens in elderly patients 
with pulmonary infection. Antibiotics should be administered reasonably 
according to the results of the drug sensitivity test. Older age, history of 
chronic lung disease, catheter indwelling, and length of stay are the risk 
factors for pulmonary bacterial infection.

Copyright © 2022 Taimei Duan.

DOI: 10.1155/2022/5607358
PMCID: PMC9225854
PMID: 35755768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


4. BMJ Open. 2020 Aug 20;10(8):e033720. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-033720.

Prognostic value of 12 novel cardiological biomarkers in stable coronary artery 
disease. A 10-year follow-up of the placebo group of the Copenhagen CLARICOR 
trial.

Winkel P(1), Jakobsen JC(2)(3), Hilden J(4), Jensen GB(5), Kjøller E(6), 
Sajadieh A(7), Kastrup J(8), Kolmos HJ(9), Iversen KK(10), Bjerre M(11), Larsson 
A(12), Ärnlöv J(13), Gluud C(2).

Author information:
(1)The Copenhagen Trial Unit, Centre for Clinical Intervention Research, 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark 
pwinkel@ctu.dk.
(2)The Copenhagen Trial Unit, Centre for Clinical Intervention Research, 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Department of Regional Health Research, The Faculty of Heath Sciences, 
University of Southern Denmark, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Section of Biostatistics, Department of Public Health Research, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)Department of Cardiology, Hvidovre Hospital, Copenhagen University Hospital, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)Cardiology, Herlev and Gentofte Hospital, Herlev, Denmark.
(7)Department of Cardiology, Bispebjerg Hospital, Copenhagen University 
Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(8)Rigshopitalet, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(9)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Odense University Hospital, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(10)Department of Cardiology, Herlev Hospital, Copenhagen University Hospital, 
Herlev, Denmark.
(11)The Medical Research Laboratory, Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus 
University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(12)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(13)Family Medicine and Primary Care, Karolinska Universitetssjukhuset, 
Stockholm, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To assess if 12 novel circulating biomarkers, when added to 'standard 
predictors' available in general practice, could improve the 10-year prediction 
of cardiovascular events and mortality in patients with stable coronary heart 
disease.
DESIGN: The patients participated as placebo receiving patients in the 
randomised clarithromycin for patients with stable coronary artery disease 
(CLARICOR) trial at a random time in their disease trajectory.
SETTING: Five Copenhagen University cardiology departments and a coordinating 
centre.
PARTICIPANTS: 1998 participants with stable coronary artery disease.
OUTCOMES: Death and composite of myocardial infarction, unstable angina 
pectoris, cerebrovascular disease and death.
RESULTS: When only 'standard predictors' were included, 83.4% of all-cause death 
predictions and 68.4% of composite outcome predictions were correct. 
Log(calprotectin) and log(cathepsin-S) were not associated (p≥0.01) with the 
outcomes, not even as single predictors. Adding the remaining 10 biomarkers 
(high-sensitive assay cardiac troponin T; neutrophil gelatinase-associated 
lipocalin; osteoprotegerin; N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide; tumour 
necrosis factor receptor 1 and 2; pregnancy-associated plasma protein A; 
endostatin; YKL40; cathepsin-B), which were all individually significantly 
associated with the prediction of the two outcomes, increased the figures to 
84.7% and 69.7%.
CONCLUSION: When 'standard predictors' routinely available in general practices 
are used for risk assessment in consecutively sampled patients with stable 
coronary artery disease, the addition of 10 novel biomarkers to the prediction 
model improved the correct prediction of all-cause death and the composite 
outcome by <1.5%.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT00121550.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-033720
PMCID: PMC7443269
PMID: 32819979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


5. J Clin Med. 2020 Jan 18;9(1):265. doi: 10.3390/jcm9010265.

Pregnancy Associated Plasma Protein-A as a Cardiovascular Risk Marker in 
Patients with Stable Coronary Heart Disease During 10 Years Follow-Up-A CLARICOR 
Trial Sub-Study.

Nilsson E(1)(2), Kastrup J(3), Sajadieh A(4), Boje Jensen G(5), Kjøller E(6)(7), 
Kolmos HJ(8), Wuopio J(9), Nowak C(10), Larsson A(11), Jakobsen JC(7)(12), 
Winkel P(7), Gluud C(7), Iversen KK(6), Ärnlöv J(10)(13), Carlsson AC(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
17177 Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)School of Medical Sciences, Örebro University, 70182 Örebro, Sweden.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Rigshospitalet University of Copenhagen, 2100 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Copenhagen University Hospital of Bispebjerg and 
Frederiksberg, 2000 Frederiksberg, Denmark.
(5)Department of Cardiology, Hvidovre Hospital University of Copenhagen, 2650 
Hvidovre, Denmark.
(6)Department of Cardiology S, Herlev Hospital University of Copenhagen, 2730 
Herlev, Denmark.
(7)Copenhagen Trial Unit, Centre for Clinical Intervention Research, 
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(8)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Odense University Hospital, 5000 Odense, 
Denmark.
(9)Department of Medicine, Mora County Hospital, 79251 Mora, Sweden.
(10)Division for Family Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Neurobiology, 
Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet, 14183 Huddinge, Sweden.
(11)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, 75185 Uppsala, Sweden.
(12)Department of Cardiology, Holbæk Hospital, 4300 Holbæk, Denmark.
(13)School of Health and Social Studies, Dalarna University, 79131 Falun, 
Sweden.

Elevated pregnancy-associated plasma protein A (PAPP-A) is associated with 
mortality in acute coronary syndromes. Few studies have assessed PAPP-A in 
stable coronary artery disease (CAD) and results are conflicting. We assessed 
the 10-year prognostic relevance of PAPP-A levels in stable CAD. The CLARICOR 
trial was a randomized controlled clinical trial including outpatients with 
stable CAD, randomized to clarithromycin versus placebo. The placebo group 
constituted our discovery cohort (n = 1.996) and the clarithromycin group the 
replication cohort (n = 1.975). The composite primary outcome was first 
occurrence of cardiovascular event or death. In the discovery cohort, incidence 
rates (IR) for the composite outcome were higher in those with elevated PAPP-A 
(IR 12.72, 95% Confidence Interval (CI) 11.0-14.7 events/100 years) compared to 
lower PAPP-A (IR 8.78, 8.25-9.34), with comparable results in the replication 
cohort. Elevated PAPP-A was associated with increased risk of the composite 
outcome in both cohorts (discovery Hazard Ratio (HR) 1.45, 95% CI 1.24-1.70; 
replication HR 1.29, 95% CI 1.10-1.52). In models adjusted for established risk 
factors, these trends were attenuated. Elevated PAPP-A was associated with 
higher all-cause mortality in both cohorts. We conclude that elevated PAPP-A 
levels are associated with increased long-term mortality in stable CAD, but do 
not improve long-term prediction of death or cardiovascular events when added to 
established predictors.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm9010265
PMCID: PMC7019890
PMID: 31963719

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.

=== Drug: ILODECAKIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: FLUTICASONE & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Korean J Gastroenterol. 2020 Aug 25;76(2):78-82. doi:
10.4166/kjg.2020.76.2.78.

Eosinophilic Esophagitis with Angina Pectoris.

Son MY(1), Kim SE(1), Park SJ(1), Park MI(1), Moon W(1), Kim JH(1), Jung K(1), 
Choi GS(2), Im SI(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kosin 
University College of Medicine, Busan, Korea.
(2)Division of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Kosin University College of Medicine, Busan, Korea.
(3)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kosin University 
College of Medicine, Busan, Korea.

Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is an immune or antigen-mediated chronic 
inflammatory esophageal disorder that is relatively rare in Asian countries. The 
main symptoms of EoE are dysphagia and food impaction. Although chest pain is a 
symptom of EoE, it is also a symptom of coronary heart disease. This paper 
reports a case of EoE with angina pectoris in a 45-year-old male who was 
referred to the authors' hospital for chest pain. He was diagnosed with angina 
pectoris because of mild stenosis in the left coronary artery on coronary 
angiography. On the other hand, the symptoms did not improve with angina 
medication therapy. Therefore, he underwent a chest CT scan, which revealed 
esophageal thickening. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy was performed. His endoscopic 
findings showed linear furrows with edema, and >90 eosinophils existed per 
high-power field on the histology findings. He was diagnosed with EoE. Through 
additional examinations, he was also diagnosed with asthma. The patient was 
treated with a proton pump inhibitor and a fluticasone inhaler. His symptoms and 
abnormal endoscopic findings disappeared after eight weeks of treatment. This 
case shows that physicians should consider the possibility of the symptoms for 
EoE when unexplained chest pain persists.

DOI: 10.4166/kjg.2020.76.2.78
PMID: 32839370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: TRETINOIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: MESALAMINE & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: ROFECOXIB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. PLoS One. 2018 Aug 10;13(8):e0201884. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0201884. 
eCollection 2018.

Studying additive interaction in a healthcare database: Case study of NSAIDs, 
cardiovascular profiles, and acute myocardial infarction.

Bally M(1), Nadeau L(2), Brophy JM(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Research Center, University of Montreal Hospital, 
Montreal, Canada.
(2)Centre for Outcomes Research and Evaluation, Research Institute of the McGill 
University Health Centre, Montreal, Canada.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Montreal, Canada.
(4)Department of Medicine, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, Canada.

PURPOSE: There are clinical trial data on risk of acute myocardial infarction 
(MI) with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in patients at increased 
cardiovascular (CV) risk requiring chronic daily treatment. This study 
investigated whether risks of acute MI with real-world prescription NSAIDs, such 
as low-dose or intermittent use, vary according to an individual's CV profile.
METHODS: Nested case-control analyses were carried out on an administrative 
health cohort from Quebec, Canada by randomly selecting 10 controls per case 
matched on age ± 1 year, sex, and month and year of cohort entry. We measured 
the additive joint effects on acute MI of current NSAID use and presence of 
hypertension, coronary heart disease (CHD), history of previous MI, or 
concomitant use of cardioprotective aspirin. The endpoint was the relative 
excess risk due to interaction (RERI). To verify the robustness of interaction 
findings, we performed sensitivity analyses with varying specifications of NSAID 
exposure-related variables.
RESULTS: The cohort consisted of 233 816 elderly individuals, including 21 256 
acute MI cases. For hypertension, CHD, and previous MI, we identified additive 
interactions on MI risk with some but not all NSAIDs, which also depended on the 
definition of NSAID exposure. Hypertension was sub-additive with naproxen but 
not with the other NSAIDs. Celecoxib and CHD were sub-additive in the primary 
analysis only (modelling NSAID dose on index date or up to 7 days 
before-best-fitting base model) whereas celecoxib and rofecoxib were 
super-additive with a history of previous MI in the secondary analysis only 
(modelling NSAID use on index date). For cardioprotective aspirin we found no 
evidence for an additive interaction with any of the NSAIDs.
CONCLUSIONS: Alternative specifications of NSAID exposure concurred in finding 
that concomitant use of cardioprotective aspirin does not attenuate the risks of 
acute MI with NSAIDs. However we were unable to demonstrate consistent 
interactions between an individual's cardiovascular comorbidities and 
NSAID-associated acute MI. Our study highlights challenges of studying additive 
interactions in a healthcare database and underscores the need for sensitivity 
analyses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0201884
PMCID: PMC6086415
PMID: 30096158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal's policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: JMB reports serving 
on the Data Monitoring Committee for the PRECISION trial during the conduct of 
the study. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing 
data and materials.


2. Semergen. 2018 Jul-Aug;44(5):355-363. doi: 10.1016/j.semerg.2017.07.004. Epub 
2017 Sep 4.

[Risk of fatal/non-fatal events in patients with previous coronary heart 
disease/acute myocardial infarction and treatment with non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs].

[Article in Spanish]

Muñoz Olmo L(1), Juan Armas J(2), Gomariz García JJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Médico Residente, Medicina Familiar y Comunitaria, Centro de Salud Ribera del 
Muelle, Puerto Real, Cádiz, España. Electronic address: luismo44@hotmail.com.
(2)Médico de Familia, Centro de Salud Camargo Costa, Maliaño, Cantabria, España.
(3)Médico de Familia, Centro de Salud Lorca Sur, Lorca, Murcia, España.

BACKGROUND: Primary Care is the fundamental axis of our health system and 
obliges us to be consistent with our prescriptions. The non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been associated with increased 
cardiovascular risk and increased risk of all causes of death, as well as acute 
myocardial infarction (AMI) in patients with a previous myocardial infarction. 
Pain and cardiac patient management are 2 basic pillars in our daily activity, 
and we must know the limitations of NSAIDs in patients with established 
cardiovascular risk.
OBJECTIVES: We present a review of the scientific literature with primary 
interest in the role of NSAIDs and cardiovascular risk. The objective is to 
determine the relationship between the consumption of different NSAIDs and the 
fatal and non-fatal events among patients with known coronary disease.
METHOD: This is a review of the scientific literature with primary interest in 
the role of NSAIDs and cardiovascular risk. The literature review was conducted 
in PubMed search engines like Tripdatabase and with certain keywords. Of the 15 
original papers found, 9 did not correspond completely to the central focus, so 
the approach was decided from 6 original articles from the past 5 years, which 
address the central focus of increased cardiovascular risk found (fatal and 
non-fatal events) in patients with prior cardiovascular disease or AMI being 
prescribed NSAIDs for any reason. The risk of fatal/non-fatal events in each of 
the studies is expressed by the odds ratio (OR)/hazard ratio (HR), defined as 
the probability of an event occurring.
RESULTS: A moderate risk was observed for ibuprofen. It increases the risk of 
acute coronary syndrome after 5 years of cardiovascular event, especially in the 
2nd year (OR 1.63; 95% CI 1.42-1.87). It also increases the risk of stroke (HR 
1.23; 95% IC 1.10-1.38). Cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors were the third risk group, 
after nabumetone and diclofenac. Celecoxib increases risk from the 14th day of 
treatment (HR 2.3; 95% CI 1.79-3.02), having an OR of 1.47 (95% CI 1.05-2.07) 
for new AMI. Rofecoxib shows a risk of fatal cardiovascular events, even at low 
doses, and after 7 days of treatment (HR 2.5; 95% CI 1.91-3.46), with an OR of 
2.30 (95% CI 1.76-2.99) for new AMI. Naproxen had a lower risk of cardiovascular 
death and new cardiovascular events, but no significant results except for 
treatment longer than 90 days (HR 1.55; 95% CI 1.10-2.17), with increased 
gastrointestinal bleeding and associated comorbidity during the first year of 
treatment (HR 1.44; 95% CI 1.07-1.94). Ketorolac is seen as the drug of greatest 
risk for new AMI: Oral treatment (OR 3.91; 95% CI 2.02-7.58). The review 
highlights the cardio-protective factor of certain drugs, such as antiplatelet 
agents and statins in patients, with NSAIDs use. For example, in patients with 
greater comorbidity, differences were observed in the OR, with antiplatelet 
agents consumption giving an OR of 1.37 (95% CI 0.68-2.74), compared to the 
non-consumption, OR 1.79 (95% CI 1.16-2.78).
CONCLUSIONS: The consumption of various NSAIDs and their relationship to 
increased risk of fatal and non-fatal acute coronary syndrome is classified by 
years. Consumption increases the risk regardless of the time elapsed in relation 
to those that did not take them, with the figures remaining virtually stable for 
five years. Diclofenac and cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors (especially Rofecoxib) 
showed an increased risk, unlike naproxen, which had a lower risk. However, 
naproxen, and because of its greater capacity to generate gastrointestinal 
bleeding, increased for this reason, fatal events and comorbidity in these 
patients. Despite this, it still has the best cardiovascular safety profile.

Copyright © 2017 Sociedad Española de Médicos de Atención Primaria (SEMERGEN). 
Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semerg.2017.07.004
PMID: 28882733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2013 Jun;22(6):559-70. doi: 10.1002/pds.3437.

Myocardial infarction and individual nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
meta-analysis of observational studies.

Varas-Lorenzo C, Riera-Guardia N, Calingaert B, Castellsague J, Salvo F, Nicotra 
F, Sturkenboom M, Perez-Gutthann S.

Comment in
    Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2014 Mar;23(3):326-8. doi: 10.1002/pds.3564.
    Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2014 Mar;23(3):329-30. doi: 10.1002/pds.3563.

OBJECTIVE: To conduct a systematic review of observational studies on the risk 
of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with use of individual nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
METHODS: A search of Medline (PubMed) for observational studies published from 
1990 to 2011 identified 3829 articles; 31 reported relative risk (RR) of AMI 
with use of individual NSAIDs versus nonuse of NSAIDs. Information abstracted in 
a standardized form from 25 publications was used for the meta-analysis on 18 
independent study populations.
RESULTS: Random-effects RR (95% confidence interval (CI)) was lowest for 
naproxen 1.06 (0.94–1.20), followed by celecoxib 1.12 (1.00–1.24), ibuprofen 
1.14 (0.98–1.31), meloxicam 1.25 (1.04–1.49), rofecoxib 1.34 (1.22–1.48), 
diclofenac 1.38 (1.26–1.52), indometacin 1.40 (1.21–1.62), etodolac 1.55 
(1.16–2.06), and etoricoxib 1.97 (1.35–2.89). Heterogeneity between studies was 
present. For new users, RRs (95% CIs) were for naproxen, 0.85 (0.73–1.00); 
ibuprofen, 1.20 (0.97–1.48); celecoxib, 1.23 (1.00–1.52); diclofenac, 1.41 
(1.08–1.86); and rofecoxib, 1.43 (1.21–1.66).Except for naproxen, higher risk 
was generally associated with higher doses, as defined in each study, overall 
and in patients with prior coronary heart disease. Low and high doses of 
diclofenac and rofecoxib were associated with high risk of AMI, with 
dose–response relationship for rofecoxib. In patients with prior coronary heart 
disease, except for naproxen, duration of use ≤3 months was associated with an 
increased risk of AMI.
CONCLUSIONS: Most frequently NSAIDs used in clinical practice, except naproxen, 
are associated with an increased risk of AMI at high doses or in persons with 
diagnosed coronary heart disease. For diclofenac and rofecoxib, the risk was 
increased at low and high doses.

DOI: 10.1002/pds.3437
PMCID: PMC3749466
PMID: 23616423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Free Radic Biol Med. 2010 Apr 15;48(8):1013-23. doi: 
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2010.01.017. Epub 2010 Jan 18.

Celecoxib activates PI-3K/Akt and mitochondrial redox signaling to enhance heme 
oxygenase-1-mediated anti-inflammatory activity in vascular endothelium.

Hamdulay SS(1), Wang B, Birdsey GM, Ali F, Dumont O, Evans PC, Haskard DO, 
Wheeler-Jones CP, Mason JC.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Sciences, Bywaters Center for Vascular Inflammation, National 
Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, Hammersmith Hospital, London 
W12 ONN, UK.

Although nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) provide important control 
of pain and inflammation, they have been overshadowed by concerns regarding 
atherothrombotic complications. However, celecoxib seems to have a relatively 
good cardiovascular profile and may improve endothelial function in coronary 
heart disease. This led us to the hypothesis that celecoxib induces the 
vasculoprotective enzyme heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). In human umbilical vein and 
aortic endothelial cells, 24-48 h treatment with celecoxib induced HO-1 mRNA and 
protein expression and increased HO-1 enzyme activity. This effect was not seen 
with rofecoxib or indomethacin. Supplementation of culture medium with iloprost 
or prostaglandin E(2) failed to reverse celecoxib-mediated HO-1 induction, 
indicating a cyclooxygenase-independent mechanism. Rather, this action of 
celecoxib involved generation of mitochondria-derived reactive oxygen species, 
Akt phosphorylation, and nuclear translocation of the transcription factor Nrf2, 
with N-acetylcysteine, PI-3K antagonist LY290042, and dominant-negative Akt 
abrogating the effects. Furthermore, celecoxib-induced HO-1 was inhibited by 
dominant-negative Nrf2. The functional significance of HO-1 induction was 
revealed by celecoxib-mediated inhibition of VCAM-1 expression, a response 
reversed by the HO-1 antagonist zinc protoporphyrin. HO-1 induction provides a 
molecular mechanism for clinical observations indicating relative freedom from 
atherothrombotic complications in patients taking celecoxib compared to other 
NSAIDs with comparable anti-inflammatory activity.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2010.01.017
PMID: 20083195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2009 May;2(3):155-63. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.108.805689. Epub 2009 May 5.

Cardiovascular risks of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs in patients after 
hospitalization for serious coronary heart disease.

Ray WA(1), Varas-Lorenzo C, Chung CP, Castellsague J, Murray KT, Stein CM, 
Daugherty JR, Arbogast PG, García-Rodríguez LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Division of Pharmacoepidemiology, 
Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, TN, USA. 
wayne.ray@vanderbilt.edu

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2009 May;2(3):146-7. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.109.870766.

BACKGROUND: The cardiovascular safety of individual nonsteroidal 
antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is highly controversial, particularly in persons 
with serious coronary heart disease.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We conducted a multisite retrospective cohort study of 
commonly used individual NSAIDs in Tennessee Medicaid, Saskatchewan Health, and 
United Kingdom General Practice Research databases. The cohort included 48566 
patients recently hospitalized for myocardial infarction, revascularization, or 
unstable angina pectoris with more than 111000 person-years of follow-up. 
Naproxen users had the lowest adjusted rates of serious coronary heart disease 
(myocardial infarction, coronary heart disease death) and serious cardiovascular 
disease (myocardial infarction, stroke)/death from any cause, with respective 
incidence rate ratios (relative to NSAID nonusers) of 0.88 (95% CI, 0.66 to 
1.17) and 0.91 (0.78 to 1.06). Risk did not increase with doses >or=1000 mg. 
Relative to NSAID nonusers, serious coronary heart disease risk increased with 
short term (<90 days) use for ibuprofen (1.67 [1.09 to 2.57]), diclofenac (1.86 
[1.18 to 2.92]), celecoxib (1.37 [0.96 to 1.94]), and rofecoxib (1.46 [1.03 to 
2.07]), but not for naproxen (0.88 [0.50 to 1.55]). Relative to naproxen, 
current users of diclofenac had increased risk of serious coronary heart disease 
(1.44 [0.96 to 2.15], P=0.076) and serious cardiovascular disease/death (1.52 
[1.22 to 1.89], P=0.0002), and those of ibuprofen had increased risk of the 
latter end point (1.25 [1.02 to 1.53], P=0.032). Compared to naproxen in doses 
>or=1000 mg, serious coronary heart disease incidence rate ratios were increased 
for rofecoxib >25 mg (2.29 [1.24 to 4.22], P=0.008) and celecoxib >200 mg (1.61 
[1.01 to 2.57], P=0.046).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients recently hospitalized for serious coronary heart 
disease, naproxen had better cardiovascular safety than did diclofenac, 
ibuprofen, and higher doses of celecoxib and rofecoxib.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.108.805689
PMID: 20031832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: ETANERCEPT & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. J Invest Dermatol. 2018 Feb;138(2):273-281. doi: 10.1016/j.jid.2017.08.040.
Epub  2017 Sep 18.

Reduction of Inflammatory and Cardiovascular Proteins in the Blood of Patients 
with Psoriasis: Differential Responses between Tofacitinib and Etanercept after 
4 Weeks of Treatment.

Kim J(1), Tomalin L(2), Lee J(3), Fitz LJ(3), Berstein G(3), Correa-da Rosa 
J(4), Garcet S(5), Lowes MA(5), Valdez H(6), Wolk R(6), Suarez-Farinas M(7), 
Krueger JG(8).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Investigative Dermatology, The Rockefeller University, New 
York, New York, USA; Division of Dermatology, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert 
Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York, USA.
(2)Laboratory for Investigative Dermatology, The Rockefeller University, New 
York, New York, USA; Department of Dermatology, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.
(3)Pfizer Early Clinical Development Precision Medicine, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(4)The Center for Clinical and Translational Science, The Rockefeller 
University, New York, New York, USA.
(5)Laboratory for Investigative Dermatology, The Rockefeller University, New 
York, New York, USA.
(6)Pfizer Global Research & Development, Groton, Connecticut, USA.
(7)Department of Dermatology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York, USA.
(8)Laboratory for Investigative Dermatology, The Rockefeller University, New 
York, New York, USA. Electronic address: kruegej@rockefeller.edu.

Patients with psoriasis have an increased risk of myocardial infarction, and 
psoriasis is now recognized as an independent risk factor for coronary heart 
disease and cardiovascular mortality. To understand the effects of psoriasis 
medications on systemic inflammation associated with cardiovascular risks, we 
studied blood proteins related to inflammation and cardiovascular disease 
archived from a phase 3 clinical trial of tofacitinib and etanercept in adults 
with moderate-to-severe psoriasis. A total of 157 blood proteins were quantified 
by a proximity extension assay from 266 patients at baseline and week 4. Protein 
changes in the blood after 1 month of treatment were compared between 
tofacitinib (10 mg two times a day) and etanercept (50 mg biweekly), and by 
response status at week 12. Tofacitinib and etanercept commonly reduced IL-6, 
CCL20, and CXCL10, but IL-17A was significantly reduced only in responders of 
either treatment. Compared with etanercept, tofacitinib showed a wider spectrum 
of cardiovascular blood protein reduction, but the protein reduction effects of 
tofacitinib were strictly confined to treatment responders. Tumor necrosis 
factor receptor 1, E-selectin, hK11, tumor necrosis factor-related 
activation-induced cytokine, CHI3L1, IL-16, and matrix metalloproteinase-12 were 
cardiovascular proteins significantly reduced only in tofacitinib responders. 
Our data suggest that a short-term systemic psoriasis treatment can cause 
reductions in circulating inflammatory and other proteins associated with 
cardiovascular risks.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jid.2017.08.040
PMID: 28927890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. J Psoriasis Psoriatic Arthritis. 2016 Summer;1(3):128-137. doi: 
10.1177/247553031600100307.

Risk of Cardiovascular Outcomes among Psoriasis Patients Treated with Biologics 
and Other Systemic Agents.

Curtis JR(1)(2), Danila MI(1), Chen L(1), Chan B(3), Ehst B(4), Xie F(1), 
Winthrop KL(#)(5)(6), Yun H(#)(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham, Division of Clinical Immunology and 
Rheumatology.
(2)University of Alabama at Birmingham, Department of Epidemiology.
(3)Oregon Health and Science University, Department of Emergency Medicine.
(4)Oregon Health and Science University, Department of Dermatology.
(5)Divisions of Infectious Diseases, Ophthalmology, and Public Health and 
Preventive Medicine, Oregon Health and Science University.
(6)Center for Health Systems Effectiveness, Oregon Health and Science 
University.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The risk for cardiovascular events associated with systemic 
therapies for psoriasis, including biologics, is unclear.
METHODS: We used administrative data from Medicare 2006 through 2011 to identify 
psoriasis patients who initiated systemic treatments. We estimated incidence 
rates of hospitalized myocardial infarction, stroke, and a composite 
cardiovascular disease outcome, adjusting for potentially confounding factors.
RESULTS: There were 28,878 initiations of psoriasis treatments. Rates of 
myocardial infarction were highest for methotrexate (10.32/1000 patient-years, 
95%CI 8.55-12.46) and numerically lower for biologics. Patterns were similar for 
stroke and the composite cardiovascular disease outcome. After multivariable 
adjustment, there were no significant differences between systemic therapies for 
any of the outcomes studied.
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort of predominantly older psoriasis patients, there was 
no elevated nor protective risk of cardiovascular or stroke events associated 
with systemic therapies for psoriasis compared to conventional treatments.

DOI: 10.1177/247553031600100307
PMCID: PMC5800414
PMID: 29423460


3. Ann Rheum Dis. 2016 Oct;75(10):1813-8. doi: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2015-207870. 
Epub 2016 Jan 20.

Comparative effects of biologics on cardiovascular risk among older patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis.

Zhang J(1), Xie F(2), Yun H(3), Chen L(2), Muntner P(1), Levitan EB(1), Safford 
MM(4), Kent ST(1), Osterman MT(5), Lewis JD(5), Saag K(2), Singh JA(6), Curtis 
JR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, USA.
(2)Division of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, School of Medicine, 
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, USA Division of Clinical Immunology and 
Rheumatology, School of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, Alabama, USA.
(4)Division of Preventive Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, USA.
(5)Division of Gastroenterology, Center for Clinical Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics; Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(6)Division of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, School of Medicine, 
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, USA Medicine Service, 
Birmingham Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Birmingham, Alabama, USA Department 
of Orthopedic Surgery, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, New York, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the coronary heart disease risk among patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) initiating common biologic disease-modifying 
antirheumatic drugs of different mechanisms.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study of patients with RA enrolled 
in Medicare, a public health plan covering >90% of US residents 65 years or 
older, from 2006 to 2012 who (1) initiated a biologic, (2) had complete medical 
and pharmacy coverage for at least 12 months before biologic initiation and (3) 
were free of coronary heart disease at the time of initiation. We compared the 
incidence rates (IRs) of (1) acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and (2) a 
composite outcome of AMI or coronary revascularisation and used multivariable 
adjusted Cox regression models to examine the associations between the type of 
biologic and the two outcomes.
RESULTS: We identified 47 193 eligible patients with RA with mean age 64 (SD 13) 
years; 85% were women. Crude IRs for AMI ranged from 5.7 to 8.8 cases per 1000 
person-years (PYs). AMI risk was significantly elevated among antitumour 
necrosis factor (anti-TNF) initiators overall (adjusted HR (aHR) 1.3; 95% CI 1.0 
to 1.6) and individually among etanercept (aHR 1.3; 95% CI 1.0 to 1.8) and 
infliximab (aHR 1.3; 95% CI 1.0 to 1.6) compared with abatacept initiators. 
Crude IRs for the composite outcome ranged from 7.6 to 14.5 per 1000 PYs. 
Tocilizumab initiators were at reduced risk of the composite outcome compared 
with abatacept initiators (aHR 0.64, 95% CI 0.41 to 0.99).
DISCUSSION: Findings from this observational study of patients with RA suggested 
that anti-TNF biologics may be associated with higher AMI risk compared with 
abatacept.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2015-207870
PMID: 26792814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. G Ital Dermatol Venereol. 2008 Oct;143(5):315-27.

Biological agents in the treatment of psoriasis.

Tzu J(1), Krulig E, Cardenas V, Kerdel FA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Surgery, Leonard Miller School of 
Medicine at the University of Miami, Miami, FL, USA.

Psoriasis is a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory disease, with an estimated 
prevalence of 1-3% worldwide. It is considered to be a multisystemic disorder, 
primarily affecting the skin and joints (psoriatic arthritis), and associated 
with other inflammatory conditions such as inflammatory bowel disease and 
coronary heart disease among others. Today, thanks to recent scientific advances 
that have allowed us to deepen our understanding of the pathogenesis of 
psoriasis, we count with an expanded therapeutic armamentarium that includes 
targeted therapy in the form of ''biologics''. These agents have gained 
popularity as safe, effective, and convenient alternatives for the treatment of 
chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. This review will focus on the main 
biologics used in the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis: 
efalizumab, alefacept, etanercept, infliximab, adalimumab and the new 
Interleukin (IL) 12/23 inhibitors.

PMID: 18833073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Drug Saf. 2006;29(7):567-86. doi: 10.2165/00002018-200629070-00003.

Heart failure induced by non-cardiac drugs.

Slørdal L(1), Spigset O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Children's and Women's Health, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway. lars.slordal@ntnu.no

Although heart failure is predominantly caused by cardiovascular conditions such 
as hypertension, coronary heart disease and valvular heart disease, it can also 
be an adverse reaction induced by drug therapy. In addition, some drugs have the 
propensity to adversely affect haemodynamic mechanisms in patients with an 
already existing heart condition. In this article, non-cardiac drugs known to be 
associated with the development or worsening of heart failure are reviewed. 
Moreover, drugs that may adversely affect the heart as a pump without causing 
symptoms or signs of heart failure are also included. The drugs discussed 
include anticancer agents such as anthracyclines, mitoxantrone, 
cyclophosphamide, fluorouracil, capecitabine and trastuzumab; immunomodulating 
drugs such as interferon-alpha-2, interleukin-2, infliximab and etanercept; 
antidiabetic drugs such as rosiglitazone, pioglitazone and troglitazone; 
antimigraine drugs such as ergotamine and methysergide; appetite suppressants 
such as fenfulramine, dexfenfluramine and phentermine; tricyclic 
antidepressants; antipsychotic drugs such as clozapine; antiparkinsonian drugs 
such as pergolide and cabergoline; glucocorticoids; and antifungal drugs such as 
itraconazole and amphotericin B. NSAIDs, including selective cyclo-oxygenase 
(COX)-2 inhibitors, are included as a result of their ability to cause heart 
disease, particularly in patients with an already existing cardiorenal 
dysfunction. Two drug groups are of particular concern. Anthracyclines and their 
derivatives may cause cardiomyopathy in a disturbingly high number of exposed 
individuals, who may develop symptoms of insidious onset several years after 
drug therapy. The risk seems to encompass all exposed individuals, but data 
suggest that children are particularly vulnerable. Thus, a high degree of 
awareness towards this particular problem is warranted in cancer survivors 
subjected to anthracycline-based chemotherapy. A second group of problematic 
drugs are the NSAIDs, including the selective COX-2 inhibitors. These drugs may 
cause renal dysfunction and elevated blood pressure, which in turn may 
precipitate heart failure in vulnerable individuals. Although NSAID-related 
cardiotoxicity is relatively rare and most commonly seen in elderly individuals 
with concomitant disease, the widespread long-term use of these drugs in risk 
groups is potentially hazardous. Pending comprehensive safety analyses, the use 
of NSAIDs in high-risk patients should be discouraged. In addition, there is an 
urgent need to resolve the safety issues related to the use of COX-2 inhibitors. 
As numerous drugs from various drug classes may precipitate or worsen heart 
failure, a detailed history of drug exposure in patients with signs or symptoms 
of heart failure is mandatory.

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-200629070-00003
PMID: 16808550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: PEGILODECAKIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: ZIDOVUDINE & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 2013 Dec;67(3):434-45. doi: 
10.1016/j.yrtph.2013.09.002. Epub 2013 Sep 10.

Influence of mitochondrion-toxic agents on the cardiovascular system.

Finsterer J(1), Ohnsorge P.

Author information:
(1)Krankenanstalt Rudolfstiftung, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: 
fifigs1@yahoo.de.

Cardiovascular disease may be induced or worsened by mitochondrion-toxic agents. 
Mitochondrion-toxic agents may be classified as those with or without a clinical 
effect, those which induce cardiac disease only in humans or animals or both, as 
prescribed drugs, illicit drugs, exotoxins, or nutritiants, as those which 
affect the heart exclusively or also other organs, as those which are effective 
only in patients with a mitochondrial disorder or cardiac disease or also in 
healthy subjects, or as solid, liquid, or volatile agents. In humans, 
cardiotoxic agents due to mitochondrial dysfunction include anthracyclines 
(particularly doxorubicin), mitoxantrone, cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, 
fluorouracil, imatinib, bortezomib, trastuzumab, arsenic trioxide, 
cyclosporine-A, zidovudine, lamotrigine, glycosides, lidocain, isoproterenol, 
nitroprusside, pivalic acid, alcohol, cocaine, pesticides, cadmium, mycotoxins, 
cyanotoxins, meat meal, or carbon monoxide. Even more agents exhibit cardiac 
abnormalities due to mitochondrion-toxicity only in animals or tissue cultures. 
The mitochondrion-toxic effect results from impairment of the respiratory chain, 
the oxidative phosphorylation, the Krebs cycle, or the β-oxidation, from 
decrease of the mitochondrion-membrane potential, from increased oxidative 
stress, reduced anti-oxidative capacity, or from induction of apoptosis. Cardiac 
abnormalities induced via these mechanisms include cardiomyopathy, myocarditis, 
coronary heart disease, arrhythmias, heart failure, or Takotsubo syndrome. 
Discontinuation of the cardiotoxic agent results in complete recovery in the 
majority of the cases. Antioxidants and nutritiants may be of additional help. 
Particularly coenzyme-Q, riboflavin, vitamin-E, vitamin-C, L-carnitine, 
vitamin-D, thiamin, folic acid, omega-3 fatty acids, and D-ribose may alleviate 
mitochondrial cardiotoxic effects.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yrtph.2013.09.002
PMID: 24036395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2010 Jul;10(8):766-72. doi: 10.2174/138955710791572451.

Drug interactions during periodontal therapy in HIV-infected subjects.

Gonçalves LS(1), Gonçalves BM, de Andrade MA, Alves FR, Junior AS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Microbiology, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil. luciogoncalves@yahoo.com.br

Despite the beneficial effect of the HAART, adverse reactions and drug 
interaction have been observed. Abnormalities in lipid and glucose metabolism 
make HIV-positive patients to high risk for the development of coronary heart 
disease and diabetes, respectively. Besides adverse reactions, drug interaction 
with other medication can also be observed. In fact, drug interaction may 
interfere in the periodontal therapy in HIV-infected individuals. For instance, 
fluconazole, ketoconazole, itraconazole, metronidazole, ciprofloxacin, midazolam 
and triazolam can interact with some antiretroviral medications, such as 
zidovudine, nevirapine and ritonavir. The aim of the current study was to show 
to periodontists and general dental practitioners the importance of 
understanding the drug interaction in HIV-infection in order to establish a 
better control during periodontal treatment.

DOI: 10.2174/138955710791572451
PMID: 20565386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Lancet. 2008 Apr 26;371(9622):1417-26. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)60423-7.
Epub  2008 Apr 2.

Use of nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors and risk of myocardial 
infarction in HIV-infected patients enrolled in the D:A:D study: a multi-cohort 
collaboration.

D:A:D Study Group; Sabin CA, Worm SW, Weber R, Reiss P, El-Sadr W, Dabis F, De 
Wit S, Law M, D'Arminio Monforte A, Friis-Møller N, Kirk O, Pradier C, Weller I, 
Phillips AN, Lundgren JD.

Collaborators: Collins S, Dabis F, D'Arminio Monforte A, De Wit S, El-Sadr WM, 
Kirk O, Law M, Pradier C, Phillips A, Reiss P, Rosseau F, Storfer SP, Weber I, 
Lundgren JD, Worm SW, Friis-Møller N, Sabin CA, Sjøl A, Lundgren JD, Sawitz A, 
Rickenbach M, Pezzotti P, Krum E, Gras L, Balestre E, Sundström A, Poll B, 
Fontas E, Torres F, Petoumenos K, Kjaer J, Hammer S, Neaton J, Sjøl A, de Wolf 
F, Zaheri S, Gras L, Bronsveld W, Hillebrand-Haverkort ME, Prins JM, Bos JC, 
Eeftinck Schattenkerk JK, Geerlings SE, Godfried MH, Lange JM, van Leth FC, Lowe 
SH, van der Meer JT, Nellen FJ, Pogány K, van der Poll T, Reiss P, Ruys TA, 
Sankatsing, Steingrover R, van Twillert G, van der Valk M, van Vonderen MG, 
Vrouenraets SM, van Vugt M, Wit FW, van Eeden A, ten Veen JH, van Dam PS, Roos 
JC, Brinkman K, Frissen PH, Weigel HM, Mulder JW, van Gorp EC, Meenhorst PL, 
Mairuhu AT, Veenstra J, Danner SA, Van Agtmael MA, Claessen FA, Perenboom RM, 
Rijkeboer A, van Vonderen M, Richter C, van der Berg J, van Leusen R, 
Vriesendorp R, Jeurissen FJ, Kauffmann RH, Koger EL, Bravenboer B, ten Napel CH, 
Kootstra GJ, Sprenger HG, Miesen WM, Doedens R, Scholvinck EH, ten Kate RW, van 
Houte DP, Polee M, Kroon FP, van den Broek, van Dissel JT, Schippers EF, Schreij 
G, van de Geest S, Verbon A, Koopmans PP, Keuter M, Post F, van der Ven AJ, van 
der Ende ME, Gyssens IC, van der Feltz M, den Hollander JG, de Marie S, Nouwen 
JL, Rijnders BJ, de Vries TE, Juttmann JR, van de Heul C, van Kasteren ME, St 
Elisabeth, Schneider MM, Bonten MJ, Borleffs JC, Ellerbroek PM, Hoepelman IM, 
Jaspers CA, Schouten I, Schurink CA, Blok WL, Tanis AA, Groeneveld PH, Salamon 
R, Beylot J, Dupon M, Le Bras M, Pellegrin JL, Ragnaud JM, Dabis F, Chêne G, 
Jacqmin-Gadda H, Thiébaut R, Lawson-Ayayi S, Lavignolle V, Balestre E, Blaizeau 
MJ, Decoin M, Formaggio AM, Delveaux S, Labarerre S, Uwamaliya B, Vimard E, 
Merchadou L, Palmer G, Touchard D, Dutoit D, Pereira F, Boulant B, Beylot J, 
Morlat P, Bernard N, Bonarek M, Bonnet F, Coadou B, Gelie P, Jaubert D, Nouts C, 
Lacoste D, Dupon M, Dutronc H, Cipriano G, Lafarie S, Chossat I, Lacut JY, Leng 
B, Pellegrin JL, Mercié P, Viallard JF, Faure I, Rispal P, Cipriano C, Tchamgoué 
S, Le Bras M, Djossou F, Malvy D, Pivetaud JP, Ragnaud JM, Chambon D, De La 
Taille C, Galperine T, Lafarie S, Neau D, Ochoa A, Beylot C, Doutre MS, Bezian 
JH, Moreau JF, Taupin JL, Conri C, Constans J, Couzigou P, Castera L, Fleury H, 
Lafon ME, Masquelier B, Pellegrin I, Trimoulet P, Moreau F, Mestre C, Series C, 
Taytard A, Law M, Petoumenos K, Anderson J, Cortossis P, Hoy J, Watson K, Roth 
N, Bloch M, Franic T, Baker D, McFarlane R, Carr A, Cooper D, Chuah J, 
Fankhauser W, Mallal S, Forsdyke C, Calvo G, Torres F, Mateu S, Domingo P, 
Sambeat MA, Gatel J, Del Cacho E, Cadafalch J, Fuster M, Codina C, Sirera G, 
Vaqué A, Clumeck N, De Wit S, Gerard M, Kabeya K, Konopnicki D, Libois A, Payen 
MC, Poll B, Van Laethem Y, Neaton J, Bartsch G, El-Sadr WM, Krum E, Thompson G, 
Wentworth D, Luskin-Hawk R, Telzak E, El-Sadr WM, Abrams DI, Cohn D, Markowitz 
N, Arduino R, Mushatt D, Friedland G, Perez G, Tedaldi E, Fisher E, Gordin F, 
Crane LR, Sampson J, Baxter J, Kirk O, Mocroft A, Phillips AN, Lundgren JD, 
Vetter N, Karpov I, Vassilenko A, Clumeck N, De Wit S, Poll B, Colebunders R, 
Machala L, Rozsypal H, Sedlacek D, Nielsen J, Benfield T, Gerstoft J, 
Katzenstein T, Hansen AB, Skinhøj P, Pedersen C, Zilmer K, Katlama C, Viard JP, 
Girard PM, Saint-Marc T, Vanhems P, Pradier C, Dabis F, Dietrich M, Manegold C, 
van Lunzen J, Stellbrink HJ, Staszewski S, Bieckel M, Goebel FD, Fätkenheuer G, 
Rockstroh J, Schmidt RE, Kosmidis J, Gargalianos P, Sambatakou H, Perdios J, 
Panos G, Filandras A, Banhegyi D, Mulcahy F, Yust I, Burke M, Turner D, Pollack 
S, Hassoun J, Sthoeger Z, Maayan S, Vella S, Chiesi A, Arici C, Pristerá R, 
Mazzotta F, Gabbuti A, Esposito R, Bedini A, Chirianni A, Montesarchio E, Vullo 
V, Santopadre P, Narciso P, Antinori A, Franci P, Zaccarelli M, Lazzarin A, 
Castagna A, D'Arminio Monforte A, Viksna L, Chaplinskas S, Hemmer R, Staub T, 
Reiss P, Bruun J, Maeland A, Ormaasen V, Knysz B, Gasiorowski J, Horban A, 
Prokopowicz D, Wiercinska-Drapalo A, Boron-Kaczmarsk A, Pynka M, Beniowski M, 
Mularska E, Trocha H, Antunes A, Mansinho K, Maltez F, Duiculescu D, 
Streinu-Cercel A, Vinogradova E, Rakhmanova A, Jevtovic D, Mokrás M, Staneková 
D, González-Lahoz J, Sanchez-Conde M, García-Benayas T, Martin-Carbonero L, 
Soriano V, Clotet B, Jou A, Conejero J, Ruiz L, Tural C, Gatell JM, Miró JM, 
Zamora L, Domingo P, Gutierrez M, Mateo G, Sambeat MA, Blaxhult A, Karlsson A, 
Pehrson P, Ledergerber B, Weber R, Francioli P, Telenti A, Hirschel B, 
Soravia-Dunand V, Furrer H, Kravchenko E, Chentsova N, Fisher M, Brettle R, 
Barton S, Johnson AM, Mercey D, Murphy M, Johnson MA, Weber J, Scullard G, 
Morfeld L, Thulin G, Sundström A, Akerlund B, Koppel K, Karlsson A, Flamholc L, 
Håkangård C, d'Arminio Monforte A, Pezzotti P, Moroni M, d'Arminio Monforte A, 
Cargnel A, Merli S, Vigevani GM, Pastecchia C, Lazzarin A, Morsica G, Caggese L, 
Moioli C, Mura MS, Mannazzu M, Suter F, Arici C, Manconi PE, Piano P, Mazzotta 
F, Lo Caputo S, Poggio A, Bottari G, Pagano G, Alessandrini A, Scasso A, 
Abbadessa V, Mancuso S, Alberici F, Ruggieri A, Arlotti M, Ortolani P, De Lalla 
F, Tositti G, Cassola G, Piscopo R, Raise E, Ebo F, Soscia F, Tacconi L, Tirelli 
U, Cinelli R, Santoro D, Pusterla L, Carosi G, Torti C, Cadeo G, Bertelli D, 
Carnevale G, Citterio P, Filice G, Bruno R, Di Perri G, Arnaudo I, Caramello P, 
Orofino GC, Soranzo ML, Bonasso M, Rizzardini G, Melzi S, Chiodo F, Colangeli V, 
Magnani G, Ursitti M, Menichetti F, Martinelli C, Esposito R, Mussini C, 
Ghinelli F, Sighinolfi L, Coronado O, Ballardini G, Rizzo E, Montroni M, Braschi 
MC, Petrelli E, Cioppi A, Cauda R, De Luca A, Petrosillo N, Noto P, Narciso P, 
Bontempo G, Antinori A, Acinapura R, Antonucci G, De Longis P, Vullo V, Lichtner 
M, Pastore G, Ladisa N, Chirianni A, Viglietti R, Piazza M, Nappa S, Abrescia N, 
De Marco M, Colomba A, Prestileo T, De Stefano C, La Gala A, Cosco L, Scerbo A, 
Grima P, Tundo P, Vecchiet J, D'Alessandro M, Grisorio B, Ferrara S, Pradier C, 
Fontas E, Caissotti C, Dellamonica P, Bentz L, Bernard E, De Salvador-Guillouet 
F, Durant J, Mondain-Miton V, Perbost I, Prouvost-Keller B, Pugliese P, 
Rahelinirina V, Roger PM, Vander F, Battegay M, Bernasconi E, Böni J, Buche H, 
Bürgisser P, Cattacin S, Cavassini M, Dubs R, Egger M, Elzi L, Erb P, Fischer M, 
Flepp M, Fontana A, Francioli P, Furrer HJ, Gorgievski M, Günthard H, Hirschel 
B, Kaiser L, Kind C, Klimkait T, Lauper U, Ledergerber B, Opravil M, Paccaud F, 
Pantaleo G, Perrin L, Piffaretti JC, Rickenbach M, Rudin C, Schmid P, Schüpbach 
J, Speck R, Telenti A, Trkola A, Vernazza P, Weber R, Yerly S.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2008 Jul 26;372(9635):292.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2008 Apr 26;371(9622):1391-2. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)60491-2.
    Lancet. 2008 Apr 26;371(9622):1413. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)60492-4.
    Lancet. 2008 Sep 6;372(9641):803; author reply 804-5. doi: 
10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61330-6.
    Lancet. 2008 Sep 6;372(9641):803-4; author reply 804-5. doi: 
10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61331-8.
    Lancet. 2008 Sep 6;372(9641):805. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61333-1.

BACKGROUND: Whether nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors increase the 
risk of myocardial infarction in HIV-infected individuals is unclear. Our aim 
was to explore whether exposure to such drugs was associated with an excess risk 
of myocardial infarction in a large, prospective observational cohort of 
HIV-infected patients.
METHODS: We used Poisson regression models to quantify the relation between 
cumulative, recent (currently or within the preceding 6 months), and past use of 
zidovudine, didanosine, stavudine, lamivudine, and abacavir and development of 
myocardial infarction in 33 347 patients enrolled in the D:A:D study. We 
adjusted for cardiovascular risk factors that are unlikely to be affected by 
antiretroviral therapy, cohort, calendar year, and use of other antiretrovirals.
FINDINGS: Over 157,912 person-years, 517 patients had a myocardial infarction. 
We found no associations between the rate of myocardial infarction and 
cumulative or recent use of zidovudine, stavudine, or lamivudine. By contrast, 
recent-but not cumulative-use of abacavir or didanosine was associated with an 
increased rate of myocardial infarction (compared with those with no recent use 
of the drugs, relative rate 1.90, 95% CI 1.47-2.45 [p=0.0001] with abacavir and 
1.49, 1.14-1.95 [p=0.003] with didanosine); rates were not significantly 
increased in those who stopped these drugs more than 6 months previously 
compared with those who had never received these drugs. After adjustment for 
predicted 10-year risk of coronary heart disease, recent use of both didanosine 
and abacavir remained associated with increased rates of myocardial infarction 
(1.49, 1.14-1.95 [p=0.004] with didanosine; 1.89, 1.47-2.45 [p=0.0001] with 
abacavir).
INTERPRETATION: There exists an increased risk of myocardial infarction in 
patients exposed to abacavir and didanosine within the preceding 6 months. The 
excess risk does not seem to be explained by underlying established 
cardiovascular risk factors and was not present beyond 6 months after drug 
cessation.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)60423-7
PMCID: PMC2688660
PMID: 18387667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2003 May 9;128(19):1051-4. doi: 10.1055/s-2003-39100.

[HIV-infection, HAART (highly-active antiretroviral therapy) and 
hyperlipidemia].

[Article in German]

Hirsch HH(1), Battegay M.

Author information:
(1)Abt. Infektiologie, Departement Innere Medizin, Universitätsspital Basel.

HISTORY AND ADMISSION FINDINGS: A 42-year-old man with long-standing 
HIV-infection (CDC C3) and multiple treatment failures was seen for follow-up 6 
months after starting a new HAART (zidovudine, efavirenz, indinavir, ritonavir). 
The medical history is remarkable for a hypersensitivity reaction to abacavir, 
past smoking (10 pack years) and a family history of coronary heart disease of 
the patient's mother. Physical examination revealed discrete signs of 
lipoatrophy of the face, arms and legs, but no lipoaccumulation (hip-waist ratio 
0.94; body mass index 22 kg/m2). Blood pressure measured 156/92 mmHg.
LABORATORY FINDINGS: A rise in CD4 cell count from 24/ microL to 60/ microL was 
noted. For the first time, the HIV viral load decreased to < 50 copies/mL. 
Concentrations of triglycerides and cholesterol were found to be increased to 26 
mmol/L (2275 mg/dL) and 15 mmol/L (580 mg/dL), respectively, compared previously 
normal readings. Other parameters were in the normal range.
DIAGNOSIS AND THERAPY: Continuation of HAART resulted in rising CD4 counts to > 
200/ microL and HIV viral load suppression to < 50 copies/mL. Neither dietary 
measures nor treatment with pravastatin significantly changed the drug-induced 
mixed hyperlipidemia. Treatment with fenofibrate (200 mg qd), however, was 
followed by a significant reduction of triglyceride and cholesterol 
concentrations to 12 mmol/L (1050 mg/dL) and 10 mmol/L (387 mg/dL). Addition of 
pravastatin did not result in further improvement. Arterial hypertension was 
diagnosed by ambulatory 24-h blood pressure monitoring (systolic 157+/-11 mmHg; 
diastolic 97+/-10 mmHg).
CONCLUSION: HAART-induced mixed hyperlipidaemia is likely to increase the 
cardiovascular risk. According to first estimates, the 3-year risk of myocardial 
infarction amounts to 1.29 - 2.09 % for our patient. The 3-year risk of HIV 
progression to AIDS or death is > 30 % if HAART is stopped or fails upon 
switching due to unknown archived drug resistance. Thus, despite unsatisfactory 
lipid profiles, a modification of HAART seems only acceptable, if new, equally 
potent, but less lipidaemic drug combinations are available.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-39100
PMID: 12736856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: EMAPTICAP PEGOL & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: RECOMBINANT MONOCYTE CHEMOATTRACTANT PROTEIN-1 & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: BINDARIT & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: RISPERIDONE & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Molecules. 2023 Mar 14;28(6):2643. doi: 10.3390/molecules28062643.

Virtual Screening of Novel 24-Dehydroxysterol Reductase (DHCR24) Inhibitors and 
the Biological Evaluation of Irbesartan in Cholesterol-Lowering Effect.

Wang H(1), Lu Z(1), Li Y(1), Liu T(1), Zhao L(1), Gao T(1), Lu X(1), Gao B(2).

Author information:
(1)The School of Life Science, Liaoning University, Chongshanzhong-Lu No. 66, 
Shenyang 110036, China.
(2)Department of Cell Biology and Genetics, Shenyang Medical College, Shenyang 
110034, China.

Hyperlipidemia is a risk factor for the development of fatty liver and 
cardiovascular diseases such as atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease, and 
hence, cholesterol-lowering drugs are considered important and effective in 
preventing cardiovascular diseases. Thus, researchers in the field of new drug 
development are endeavoring to identify new types of cholesterol-lowering drugs. 
3β-hydroxysterol-Δ(24)-reductase (DHCR24) catalyzes the conversion of 
desmosterol to cholesterol, which is the last step in the cholesterol 
biosynthesis pathway. We speculated that blocking the catalytic activity of 
DHCR24 could be a novel therapeutic strategy for treating hyperlipidemia. In the 
present study, by virtually screening the DrugBank database and performing 
molecular dynamics simulation analysis, we selected four potential DHCR24 
inhibitor candidates: irbesartan, risperidone, tolvaptan, and conivaptan. All 
four candidates showed significant cholesterol-lowering activity in HepG2 cells. 
The experimental mouse model of hyperlipidemia demonstrated that all four 
candidates improved high blood lipid levels and fat vacuolation in the livers of 
mice fed with a high-fat diet. In addition, Western blot analysis results 
suggested that irbesartan reduced cholesterol levels by downregulating the 
expression of the low-density lipoprotein receptor. Finally, the immune complex 
activity assay confirmed the inhibitory effect of irbesartan on the enzymatic 
activity of DHCR24 with its half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) value 
of 602 nM. Thus, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to report 
that blocking the enzymatic activity of DHCR24 via competitive inhibition is a 
potential strategy for developing new cholesterol-lowering drugs against 
hyperlipidemia or multiple cancers. Furthermore, considering that irbesartan is 
currently used to treat hypertension combined with type 2 diabetes, we believe 
that irbesartan should be a suitable choice for patients with both hypertension 
and hyperlipidemia.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules28062643
PMCID: PMC10053925
PMID: 36985615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


2. J Comorb. 2017 Jul 13;7(1):79-88. doi: 10.15256/joc.2017.7.107. eCollection 
2017.

Coronary heart disease risk in patients with schizophrenia: a Lebanese 
cross-sectional study.

Haddad C(1)(2), Hallit S(1)(3)(4)(5)(2), Salameh P(3)(6), Bou-Assi T(7), Zoghbi 
M(1)(8).

Author information:
(1)Research Department, Psychiatric Hospital of the Cross, Jal Eddib, Lebanon.
(2)Equal contribution.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, Lebanese University, Beirut, Lebanon.
(4)Faculty of Pharmacy, Saint-Joseph University, Beirut, Lebanon.
(5)Faculty of Medicine and Medical Sciences, Holy Spirit University of Kaslik, 
Kaslik, Lebanon.
(6)Faculty of Medicine, Lebanese University, Beirut, Lebanon.
(7)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Psychiatric Hospital of the Cross, Jal 
Eddib, Lebanon.
(8)Department of Family Medicine, Saint-Joseph University, Beirut, Lebanon.

BACKGROUND: Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a leading cause of premature death 
in patients with schizophrenia. CHD risk in Lebanese patients with schizophrenia 
remains unknown.
OBJECTIVES: To (i) evaluate CHD risk of patients with schizophrenia in Lebanon; 
and (ii) detect the modifiable and non-modifiable factors affecting this risk.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study of 329 patients with schizophrenia aged 20-75 
years. Ten-year hard CHD risk was calculated using the Framingham risk score. A 
logistic regression was conducted taking the dichotomous hard CHD (<10% and 
≥10%) as the dependent variable.
RESULTS: Ten-year hard CHD risk was low (<10%) in 60.8% of patients, 
intermediate (10-20%) in 31.6%, and high (>20%) in 7.6%. Multivariate analysis 
showed that the mean 10-year hard CHD risk was 8.76±6.92 (10.82±6.83 in men and 
3.18±2.90 in women). Ten-year hard CHD risk was higher in patients with the 
metabolic syndrome (odds ratio [OR] 2.67, confidence interval [CI] 1.54-4.64), a 
longer duration of schizophrenia (OR 1.03, CI 1.01-1.05), a history of other 
medical illnesses (OR 2.02, CI 1.18-3.47), and in those participating in art 
therapy (OR 2.13, CI 1.25-3.64) or therapeutic education (OR 1.93, CI 
0.93-4.01). Ten-year hard CHD risk was lower in patients receiving risperidone 
(OR 0.23, CI 0.08-0.68), any anti-epileptic (OR 0.41, CI 0.24-0.73), or any 
benzodiazepine (OR 0.33, CI 0.17-0.66) medication.
CONCLUSION: CHD is prevalent in patients with schizophrenia in Lebanon. 
Physicians are recommended to monitor the components of the metabolic syndrome 
to identify patients with increased risk of cardiovascular diseases.

DOI: 10.15256/joc.2017.7.107
PMCID: PMC5556440
PMID: 29090191

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have nothing to disclose.


3. Rev Neurol. 2013 Dec 1;57(11):495-503.

Cardiovascular risk factors in chronic treatment with antipsychotic agents used 
in primary care.

[Article in English, Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Mundet-Tudurí X(1), Iglesias-Rodal M, Olmos-Domínguez C, Bernard-Antoranz ML, 
Fernández-San Martín MI, Amado-Guirado E.

Author information:
(1)Institut Catala de la Salut, Barcelona, Espana.

AIM: To compare the prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors (CVRF) and 
vascular events, between patients treated and untreated with antipsychotic 
drugs.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A cross-sectional study was done in Barcelona. We compared 
patients attended in Primary Health Care Centres, treated with or without 
antipsychotics between 2008 and 2010. Anthropometric measurements, clinical 
variables, and CVRF were assessed. Adult and elderly patients, typical and 
atypical antipsychotics, were studied separately.
RESULTS: 14,087 patients had been prescribed antipsychotics (63.4% atypical), 
the most common being risperidone. We selected 13,724 patients with the same age 
and gender but not treated (total of 27,811 patients). Patients receiving 
antipsychotic had higher prevalence of obesity (16.9% vs. 11.9%), smoking (22.2% 
vs. 11.1%), diabetes mellitus (16% vs. 11.9%), and dyslipidemia (32.8% vs. 
25.8%) (p < 0.001). The prevalence of stroke was significantly higher in the 
treated patients, both in adults (odds ratio = 2.33) and the elderly (odds ratio 
= 1.64). The prevalence of coronary heart disease was similar in both groups 
(odds ratio = 0.97). Among patients treated with antipsychotic, differences were 
not observed depending typical or atypical ones.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients treated with antipsychotic drugs had a greater prevalence 
of several CVRF (diabetes mellitus, obesity, and smoking). The presence of 
stroke was higher in those treated with antipsychotics. No relevant differences 
were observed between patients receiving typical or atypical antipsychotics.

Publisher: TITLE: Factores de riesgo cardiovascular en el tratamiento cronico 
con antipsicoticos en atencion primaria.
Objetivo. Comparar la prevalencia de factores de riesgo cardiovascular (FRCV) y 
eventos vasculares en pacientes tratados con antipsicoticos, comparandolos con 
los no tratados. Sujetos y metodos. Estudio descriptivo transversal de pacientes 
atendidos en atencion primaria de la ciudad de Barcelona y tratados con 
antipsicoticos entre el 2008 y el 2010, comparandolos con una poblacion no 
tratada. Se registraron las variables antropometricas y clinicas y los FRCV. Se 
estudio por separado a pacientes adultos y ancianos, y a los tratados con 
antipsicoticos tipicos y atipicos. Resultados. Un total de 14.087 pacientes 
habian sido tratados con antipsicoticos (63,4% atipicos). El mas prescrito fue 
la risperidona. Se aparejaron 13.724 pacientes de la misma edad y genero, pero 
no tratados (n total = 27.811). Los tratados con antipsicoticos presentaron una 
prevalencia superior de obesidad (16,9% frente a 10,6%), tabaquismo (22,2% 
frente a 11,1%), diabetes mellitus (16% frente a 11,9%) y dislipemia (32,8% 
frente a 25,8%) (p < 0,001). La prevalencia de accidente vascular cerebral fue 
significativamente superior entre los tratados, tanto en los adultos (odds ratio 
= 2,33) como en los ancianos (odds ratio = 1,64). La prevalencia de cardiopatia 
isquemica fue similar en ambos grupos (odds ratio = 0,97). No se observaron 
diferencias significativas entre los tratados con un antipsicotico tipico o 
atipico. Conclusiones. Los pacientes tratados con antipsicoticos presentaron una 
mayor prevalencia de FRCV (diabetes, obesidad y tabaquismo). La presencia de 
ictus fue superior entre los tratados con antipsicoticos. No se detectaron 
diferencias importantes entre los pacientes tratados con antipsicoticos tipicos 
y atipicos.

PMID: 24265143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Schizophr Res. 2013 May;146(1-3):190-5. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.01.013.
Epub  2013 Feb 21.

Effects of switching from olanzapine, quetiapine, and risperidone to 
aripiprazole on 10-year coronary heart disease risk and metabolic syndrome 
status: results from a randomized controlled trial.

Stroup TS(1), Byerly MJ, Nasrallah HA, Ray N, Khan AY, Lamberti JS, Glick ID, 
Steinbook RM, McEvoy JP, Hamer RM.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, United States. 
stroups@nyspi.columbia.edu

PURPOSE: This study examined the clinical significance of switching from 
olanzapine, quetiapine, or risperidone to aripiprazole by examining changes in 
predicted risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) according to the Framingham Risk 
Score (FRS) and metabolic syndrome status. FRS estimates 10-year risk of "hard" 
coronary heart disease (CHD) outcomes (myocardial infarction and coronary death) 
while metabolic syndrome is associated with increased risk of CVD, stroke, and 
diabetes mellitus.
METHOD: Changes in FRS and metabolic syndrome status were compared between 
patients with BMI ≥ 27 and non-HDL-C ≥ 130 mg/dL randomly assigned to stay on 
stable current treatment (olanzapine, quetiapine, or risperidone) or switch to 
treatment with aripiprazole with 24 weeks of follow-up. All study participants 
were enrolled in a behavioral program that promoted healthy diet and exercise.
RESULTS: The pre-specified analyses included 89 switchers and 98 stayers who had 
post-baseline measurements needed to assess changes. Least squares mean 
estimates of 10-year CHD risk decreased more for the switch (from 7.0% to 5.2%) 
than the stay group (from 7.4% to 6.4%) (p = 0.0429). The odds ratio for having 
metabolic syndrome (stay vs. switch) at the last observation was 1.748 (95% CI 
0.919, 3.324, p = 0.0885).
CONCLUSION: Switching from olanzapine, quetiapine, or risperidone to 
aripiprazole was associated with larger reductions in predicted 10-year risk of 
CHD than the behavioral program alone. The advantage of switching on metabolic 
syndrome was not statistically significant. The benefits of switching must be 
balanced against its risks, which in this study included more discontinuations 
of the study treatment but no significant increase in symptoms or 
hospitalizations.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.01.013
PMCID: PMC3622801
PMID: 23434503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Ann Clin Psychiatry. 2013 Feb;25(1):17-26.

A simulation model to estimate 10-year risk of coronary heart disease events in 
patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders treated with second-generation 
antipsychotic drugs.

Darbà J(1), Kaskens L, Aranda P, Arango C, Bobes J, Carmena R, Rejas J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Barcelona, Spain. darba@ub.edu

BACKGROUND: The risk for cardiovascular (CV) events has been shown to be 
considerably higher among schizophrenia patients than the general population.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to describe a general stochastic simulation 
model for the treatment of schizophrenia related to CV-associated risks of 
second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs).
METHODS: A model to simulate the expected 10-year incidence of all types of 
coronary heart disease (CHD) events in patients treated with SGAs was developed 
from the Cardiovascular, Lipid and Metabolic Outcomes Research in Schizophrenia 
(CLAMORS) study to reproduce baseline conditions. The CHD event risk was 
estimated through a locally adjusted Framingham risk function using the expected 
mean change in the CV risk factors from the Clinical Antipsychotic Trials in 
Intervention Effectiveness (CATIE) study.
RESULTS: The 10-year CHD event rate after treatment with SGAs was 0.181, 0.179, 
0.176, and 0.172 for olanzapine, quetiapine, risperidone, and ziprasidone, 
respectively. Relative risk was calculated relative to no treatment, and values 
were as follows: olanzapine, 1.03 ± 1.05 (95% CI, 0.74 to 1.42), quetiapine, 
1.02 ± 1.05 (95% CI, 0.74 to 1.41), risperidone, 1.00 ± 0.99 (95% CI, 0.73 to 
1.36), and ziprasidone, 0.97 ± 0.95 (95% CI, 0.72 to 1.31). There were 
approximately 25,269 CHD events over a 10-year period in schizophrenia patients 
treated with olanzapine, 25,157 events with quetiapine, 24,883 with risperidone, 
and 24,514 events with ziprasidone.
CONCLUSIONS: The estimated outcomes suggest that each SGA shows a different 
level of CV event risk, with ziprasidone showing the lowest rate without any 
association for increased risk of CHD.

PMID: 23376866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: CARLUMAB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: RS-504393 & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: ANTI-THYMOCYTE GLOBULIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: KELIXIMAB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: ZANOLIMUMAB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: IBALIZUMAB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: HERBIMYCIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: TREGALIZUMAB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: PRILIXIMAB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: CEDELIZUMAB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: CLENOLIXIMAB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: ANTISENSE OLIGONUCLEOTIDES & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2025 May 19;18(5):753. doi: 10.3390/ph18050753.

Lp(a)-Lowering Agents in Development: A New Era in Tackling the Burden of 
Cardiovascular Risk?

Katsiki N(1)(2), Vrablik M(3), Banach M(4), Gouni-Berthold I(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences and Dietetics, International Hellenic 
University, 57400 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)School of Medicine, European University Cyprus, 2404 Nicosia, Cyprus.
(3)Third Department of Medicine, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University 
and General University Hospital, 12800 Prague, Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Preventive Cardiology and Lipidology, Medical University of 
Lodz and Polish Mother's Memorial Hospital Research Institute, 93-338 Lodz, 
Poland.
(5)Center for Endocrinology, Diabetes and Preventive Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine and University Hospital Cologne, University of Cologne, 50923 Cologne, 
Germany.

Lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] has been recognized as an independent, inherited, causal 
risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) and aortic valve 
stenosis, thus representing a major target of residual CV risk. Currently, no 
drug has been officially approved for lowering Lp(a) levels, and in clinical 
practice, Lp(a) is mainly used to (re)define CV risk, particularly in 
individuals at borderline CV risk and people with a family history of premature 
coronary heart disease, according to various guidelines. Specific Lp(a)-targeted 
antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) and small interfering RNA (siRNA) agents have 
been developed to produce substantial Lp(a) reductions via the inhibition of 
apo(a) synthesis in the liver. These drugs are conjugated to 
N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) to ensure their binding to asialoglycoproteins, 
which are specifically expressed on the surface of the hepatocytes. Such drugs 
include pelacarsen (an injectable ASO) and olpasiran, zerlasiran, and 
lepodisiran (injectable siRNA agents). Muvalaplin represents another therapeutic 
option to lower Lp(a) levels, since it is an oral selective small molecule 
inhibitor of Lp(a) formation, thus potentially exerting certain advantages in 
terms of its clinical use. The present narrative review summarizes the available 
clinical data on the efficacy and safety of these investigational Lp(a)-lowering 
therapies, as reported in phase 1 and 2 trials. The effects of these drugs on 
other [aside from Lp(a)] lipid parameters are also discussed. The phase 3 CV 
trial outcomes are ongoing for some of these agents (i.e., pelacarsen, 
olpasiran, and lepodisiran) and are briefly mentioned. Overall, there is an 
urgent need for evidence-based guidelines on Lp(a) reduction in daily clinical 
practice, following the results of the phase 3 CV trials, as well as for 
establishing the ideal Lp(a) quantification method (i.e., using an apo(a) 
isoform-independent assay with appropriate calibrators, reporting the Lp(a) 
level in molar units).

DOI: 10.3390/ph18050753
PMCID: PMC12115060
PMID: 40430570

Conflict of interest statement: N.K. has served as a consultant or received 
speaker’s fees from Amgen, Astra Zeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Libytec, 
Menarini, Mylan/Viatris, Novartis, Novo-Nordisk, Pfizer, and Sanofi. I.G.-B. has 
served as a consultant and received honoraria from Akcea, Amgen, Daiichi-Sankyo, 
Novartis, Sanofi-Regeneron, Ultragenyx, and Amarin. M.V. reports grants and 
personal fees from Pfizer, KRKA, Novartis, and MSD, as well as personal fees 
from AMGEN, Sanofi, Zentiva, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bayer, Servier, Viatris, and 
Novo Nordisk, outside the submitted work. M.B. has received grant(s) and 
research support from Amgen, Daiichi-Sankyo, Mylan/Viatris, and Sanofi and has 
served as a consultant for or received speaker’s fees from Adamed, Amgen, Exceed 
Pharma, Daiichi-Sankyo, Esperion, Kogen, KRKA, Lilly, MSD, Mylan/Viatris, 
NewAmsterdam Pharma, Novartis, Novo-Nordisk, Polpharma, Sanofi, Teva, and 
Zentiva.


2. Front Pharmacol. 2024 May 17;15:1393333. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1393333. 
eCollection 2024.

Research trends in lipid-lowering therapies for coronary heart disease combined 
with hyperlipidemia: a bibliometric study and visual analysis.

Cheng Q(#)(1), Sun J(#)(1), Zhong H(2), Wang Z(1), Liu C(1), Zhou S(1), Deng 
J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an, China.
(2)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, The Second Affiliated 
Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) poses a significant global health and 
economic challenge, with atherosclerosis being a primary cause. Over the past 
40 years, substantial research has been conducted into the prevention and 
reversal of atherosclerosis, resulting in the development of lipid-lowering 
agents such as statins and fibrates. Despite the extensive literature and 
formulation of numerous therapeutic guidelines in this domain, a comprehensive 
bibliometric analysis of the current research landscape and trends has not been 
performed. This study aimed to elucidate the evolution and milestones of 
research into lipid-lowering treatments for coronary heart disease (CHD) in 
conjunction with hyperlipidemia through bibliometric analysis, offering insights 
into future directions for treatment strategies.
METHODS: This study examined publications from 1986 to 2023 retrieved from the 
Web of Science database (Core Collection). Utilizing tools such as VOSviewer, 
Pajek, and CiteSpace, we analyzed publication and citation numbers, H-indexes, 
contributions by countries and institutions, authorship, journal sources, and 
keyword usage to uncover research trajectories and areas of focus.
RESULTS: Our analysis of 587 publications revealed a recent surge in research 
output, particularly post-2003. The American Journal of Cardiology published the 
highest number of studies, with 40 articles, whereas Circulation received the 
highest number of citations (6,266). Key contributors included the United 
States, Japan, and China, with the United States leading in citation numbers and 
the H-index. Harvard University and Leiden University emerged as pivotal 
institutions, and Professors J. Wouter Jukema and Robert P. Giugliano were 
identified as leading experts. Keyword analysis disclosed five thematic 
clusters, indicating a shift in research towards new drug combinations and 
strategies, signaling future research directions.
CONCLUSION: The last 4 decades have seen a notable rise in publications on 
lipid-lowering therapies for CHD and hyperlipidemia, with the United States 
retaining world-leading status. The increase in international collaboration aids 
the shift towards research into innovative lipid-lowering agents and therapeutic 
approaches. PCSK9 inhibitors and innovative combination therapies, including 
antisense oligonucleotides and angiopoietin-like protein 3 inhibitors, provide 
avenues for future research, intending to maximize the safety and efficacy of 
treatment approaches.

Copyright © 2024 Cheng, Sun, Zhong, Wang, Liu, Zhou and Deng.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1393333
PMCID: PMC11140088
PMID: 38828451

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


3. Cardiovasc Res. 2024 Feb 17;119(18):2843-2857. doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvad177.

Exploring apolipoprotein C-III: pathophysiological and pharmacological 
relevance.

Packard CJ(1), Pirillo A(2)(3), Tsimikas S(4), Ference BA(5), Catapano AL(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiovascular and Medical Sciences, University of Glasgow, 
Glasgow, UK.
(2)Center for the Study of Atherosclerosis, E. Bassini Hospital, Milan, Italy.
(3)Center for the Study of Dyslipidaemias, IRCCS MultiMedica, Sesto S. Giovanni, 
20099 Milan, Italy.
(4)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Sulpizio Cardiovascular Center, 
University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(5)Centre for Naturally Randomized Trials, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, 
UK.
(6)Department of Pharmacological and Biomolecular Sciences, University of Milan, 
via Balzaretti 9, 20133 Milan, Italy.

The availability of pharmacological approaches able to effectively reduce 
circulating LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) has led to a substantial reduction in the 
risk of atherosclerosis-related cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, a 
residual cardiovascular (CV) risk persists in treated individuals with optimal 
levels of LDL-C. Additional risk factors beyond LDL-C are involved, and among 
these, elevated levels of triglycerides (TGs) and TG-rich lipoproteins are 
causally associated with an increased CV risk. Apolipoprotein C-III (apoC-III) 
is a key regulator of TG metabolism and hence circulating levels through several 
mechanisms including the inhibition of lipoprotein lipase activity and 
alterations in the affinity of apoC-III-containing lipoproteins for both the 
hepatic receptors involved in their removal and extracellular matrix in the 
arterial wall. Genetic studies have clarified the role of apoC-III in humans, 
establishing a causal link with CVD and showing that loss-of-function mutations 
in the APOC3 gene are associated with reduced TG levels and reduced risk of 
coronary heart disease. Currently available hypolipidaemic drugs can reduce TG 
levels, although to a limited extent. Substantial reductions in TG levels can be 
obtained with new drugs that target specifically apoC-III; these include two 
antisense oligonucleotides, one small interfering RNA and an antibody.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/cvad177
PMCID: PMC11484501
PMID: 38039351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: C.J.P. reports grant 
funding/honoraria from Amarin, Amgen, Daiichi-Sankyo, SalCor, MSD, and Novartis. 
A.P. has nothing to disclose. S.T. is a co-inventor and receives royalties from 
patents owned by University of California San Diego (UCSD) and is a co-founder 
and has an equity interest in Oxitope, LLC, and its affiliates, Kleanthi 
Diagnostics, LLC, and Covicept Therapeutics, Inc., and has a dual appointment at 
UCSD and Ionis Pharmaceuticals. Although these relationships have been 
identified for conflict of interest management based on the overall scope of the 
project, the research findings included in this particular publication may not 
necessarily relate to the interests of the above companies. The terms of this 
arrangement have been reviewed and approved by the UCSD in accordance with its 
conflict of interest policies. B.A.F. reports research grants from Merck, 
Novartis, Amgen, and Esperion Therapeutics and consulting fees, advisory boards, 
or lecture honoraria from Novartis, Merck, Amgen, Regeneron, Sanofi, Novartis, 
Pfizer, Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Daiichi-Sankyo, Viatris, Ionis Pharmaceuticals, 
New Amsterdam Pharmaceuticals, dalCOR, The Medicines Co, Mylan, CiVi Pharma, 
KrKa Phamaceuticals, American College of Cardiology, EAS, and European Society 
of Cardiology. A.L.C. reports grant(s)/support from Akcea, Amarin, Amgen, 
Menarini, Mylan, Sanofi, and Sanofi/Regeneron and is a consultant for Akcea, 
Amgen, Amarin, Daiichi-Sankyo, Eli Lilly, Esperion, Kowa, Ionis Pharmaceuticals, 
Menarini, MSD, Mylan, Novartis, Recordati, Regeneron, and Sanofi, outside the 
submitted work.


4. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Sep 3;24(17):13622. doi: 10.3390/ijms241713622.

Novel Pharmacological Therapies for the Management of Hyperlipoproteinemia(a).

Kosmas CE(1)(2), Bousvarou MD(3), Papakonstantinou EJ(4), Tsamoulis D(5), 
Koulopoulos A(3), Echavarria Uceta R(2), Guzman E(1)(2), Rallidis LS(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center, 
Bronx, NY 10467, USA.
(2)Cardiology Clinic, Cardiology Unlimited, PC, New York, NY 10033, USA.
(3)School of Medicine, University of Crete, 710 03 Heraklion, Greece.
(4)General Directorate of Public Health and Social Welfare, Attica Region, 115 
21 Athens, Greece.
(5)First Department of Internal Medicine, Thriasio General Hospital of Eleusis, 
196 00 Athens, Greece.
(6)2nd Department of Cardiology, Medical School, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, University General Hospital ATTIKON, 124 62 Athens, 
Greece.

Lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] is a well-established risk factor for cardiovascular 
disease, predisposing to major cardiovascular events, including coronary heart 
disease, stroke, aortic valve calcification and abdominal aortic aneurysm. Lp(a) 
is differentiated from other lipoprotein molecules through apolipoprotein(a), 
which possesses atherogenic and antithrombolytic properties attributed to its 
structure. Lp(a) levels are mostly genetically predetermined and influenced by 
the size of LPA gene variants, with smaller isoforms resulting in a greater 
synthesis rate of apo(a) and, ultimately, elevated Lp(a) levels. As a result, 
serum Lp(a) levels may highly vary from extremely low to extremely high. 
Hyperlipoproteinemia(a) is defined as Lp(a) levels > 30 mg/dL in the US and >50 
mg/dL in Europe. Because of its association with CVD, Lp(a) levels should be 
measured at least once a lifetime in adults. The ultimate goal is to identify 
individuals with increased risk of CVD and intervene accordingly. Traditional 
pharmacological interventions like niacin, statins, ezetimibe, aspirin, PCSK-9 
inhibitors, mipomersen, estrogens and CETP inhibitors have not yet yielded 
satisfactory results. The mean Lp(a) reduction, if any, is barely 50% for all 
agents, with statins increasing Lp(a) levels, whereas a reduction of 80-90% 
appears to be required to achieve a significant decrease in major cardiovascular 
events. Novel RNA-interfering agents that specifically target hepatocytes are 
aimed in this direction. Pelacarsen is an antisense oligonucleotide, while 
olpasiran, LY3819469 and SLN360 are small interfering RNAs, all conjugated with 
a N-acetylgalactosamine molecule. Their ultimate objective is to genetically 
silence LPA, reduce apo(a) production and lower serum Lp(a) levels. Evidence 
thus so far demonstrates that monthly subcutaneous administration of a single 
dose yields optimal results with persisting substantial reductions in Lp(a) 
levels, potentially enhancing CVD risk reduction. The Lp(a) reduction achieved 
with novel RNA agents may exceed 95%. The results of ongoing and future clinical 
trials are eagerly anticipated, and it is hoped that guidelines for the tailored 
management of Lp(a) levels with these novel agents may not be far off.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms241713622
PMCID: PMC10487774
PMID: 37686428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


5. Arch Cardiovasc Dis. 2021 Dec;114(12):828-847. doi:
10.1016/j.acvd.2021.10.009.  Epub 2021 Nov 25.

Lipoprotein(a): Pathophysiology, measurement, indication and treatment in 
cardiovascular disease. A consensus statement from the Nouvelle Société 
Francophone d'Athérosclérose (NSFA).

Durlach V(1), Bonnefont-Rousselot D(2), Boccara F(3), Varret M(4), Di-Filippo 
Charcosset M(5), Cariou B(6), Valero R(7), Charriere S(8), Farnier M(9), Morange 
PE(10), Meilhac O(11), Lambert G(11), Moulin P(8), Gillery P(12), 
Beliard-Lasserre S(7), Bruckert E(13), Carrié A(14), Ferrières J(15), Collet 
X(16), Chapman MJ(17), Anglés-Cano E(18).

Author information:
(1)Champagne-Ardenne University, UMR CNRS 7369 MEDyC & Cardio-Thoracic 
Department, Reims University Hospital, 51092 Reims, France.
(2)Metabolic Biochemistry Department, Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, AP-HP, 75013 
Paris, France; Université de Paris, CNRS, INSERM, UTCBS, 75006 Paris, France.
(3)Sorbonne University, GRC n(o) 22, C(2)MV, INSERM UMR_S 938, Centre de 
Recherche Saint-Antoine, IHU ICAN, 75012 Paris, France; Service de Cardiologie, 
Hôpital Saint-Antoine, AP-HP, 75012 Paris, France.
(4)Laboratory for Vascular Translational Science (LVTS), INSERM U1148, Centre 
Hospitalier Universitaire Xavier Bichat, 75018 Paris, France; Université de 
Paris, 75018 Paris, France.
(5)Hospices Civils de Lyon, UF Dyslipidémies, 69677 Bron, France; Laboratoire 
CarMen, INSERM, INRA, INSA, Université Claude-Bernard Lyon 1, 69495 
Pierre-Bénite, France.
(6)Université de Nantes, CHU Nantes, CNRS, INSERM, l'Institut du Thorax, 44000 
Nantes, France.
(7)Endocrinology Department, La Conception Hospital, AP-HM, Aix-Marseille 
University, INSERM, INRAE, C2VN, 13005 Marseille, France.
(8)Hospices Civils de Lyon, INSERM U1060, Laboratoire CarMeN, Université Lyon 1, 
69310 Pierre-Bénite, France.
(9)PEC2, EA 7460, University of Bourgogne Franche-Comté, 21079 Dijon, France; 
Department of Cardiology, CHU Dijon Bourgogne, 21000 Dijon, France.
(10)Aix-Marseille University, INSERM, INRAE, C2VN, 13385 Marseille, France.
(11)INSERM, UMR 1188 DéTROI, Université de La Réunion, 97744 Saint-Denis de La 
Réunion, Reunion; CHU de La Réunion, CIC-EC 1410, 97448 Saint-Pierre, Reunion.
(12)Laboratory of Biochemistry-Pharmacology-Toxicology, Reims University 
Hospital, University of Reims Champagne-Ardenne, UMR CNRS/URCA n(o) 7369, 51092 
Reims, France.
(13)Service d'Endocrinologie-Métabolisme, Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, AP-HP, 
75013 Paris, France; IHU ICAN, Sorbonne University, 75013 Paris, France.
(14)Sorbonne University, UMR INSERM 1166, IHU ICAN, Laboratory of Endocrine and 
Oncological Biochemistry, Obesity and Dyslipidaemia Genetic Unit, Hôpital 
Pitié-Salpêtrière, AP-HP, 75013 Paris, France.
(15)Department of Cardiology and INSERM UMR 1295, Rangueil University Hospital, 
TSA 50032, 31059 Toulouse, France.
(16)INSERM U1048, Institute of Metabolic and Cardiovascular Diseases, Rangueil 
University Hospital, BP 84225, 31432 Toulouse, France.
(17)Sorbonne University, Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière and National Institute for 
Health and Medical Research (INSERM), 75013 Paris, France.
(18)Université de Paris, INSERM, Innovative Therapies in Haemostasis, 75006 
Paris, France. Electronic address: Eduardo.Angles-Cano@inserm.fr.

Lipoprotein(a) is an apolipoprotein B100-containing low-density lipoprotein-like 
particle that is rich in cholesterol, and is associated with a second major 
protein, apolipoprotein(a). Apolipoprotein(a) possesses structural similarity to 
plasminogen but lacks fibrinolytic activity. As a consequence of its composite 
structure, lipoprotein(a) may: (1) elicit a prothrombotic/antifibrinolytic 
action favouring clot stability; and (2) enhance atherosclerosis progression via 
its propensity for retention in the arterial intima, with deposition of its 
cholesterol load at sites of plaque formation. Equally, lipoprotein(a) may 
induce inflammation and calcification in the aortic leaflet valve interstitium, 
leading to calcific aortic valve stenosis. Experimental, epidemiological and 
genetic evidence support the contention that elevated concentrations of 
lipoprotein(a) are causally related to atherothrombotic risk and equally to 
calcific aortic valve stenosis. The plasma concentration of lipoprotein(a) is 
principally determined by genetic factors, is not influenced by dietary habits, 
remains essentially constant over the lifetime of a given individual and is the 
most powerful variable for prediction of lipoprotein(a)-associated 
cardiovascular risk. However, major interindividual variations (up to 1000-fold) 
are characteristic of lipoprotein(a) concentrations. In this context, 
lipoprotein(a) assays, although currently insufficiently standardized, are of 
considerable interest, not only in stratifying cardiovascular risk, but equally 
in the clinical follow-up of patients treated with novel lipid-lowering 
therapies targeted at lipoprotein(a) (e.g. antiapolipoprotein(a) antisense 
oligonucleotides and small interfering ribonucleic acids) that markedly reduce 
circulating lipoprotein(a) concentrations. We recommend that lipoprotein(a) be 
measured once in subjects at high cardiovascular risk with premature coronary 
heart disease, in familial hypercholesterolaemia, in those with a family history 
of coronary heart disease and in those with recurrent coronary heart disease 
despite lipid-lowering treatment. Because of its clinical relevance, the cost of 
lipoprotein(a) testing should be covered by social security and health 
authorities.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acvd.2021.10.009
PMID: 34840125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: VRC-01LS & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: TRX1 & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Int J Pharm. 2021 Mar 15;597:120236. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2021.120236. Epub 
2021 Feb 1.

Engineered resveratrol-loaded fibrous scaffolds promotes functional cardiac 
repair and regeneration through Thioredoxin-1 mediated VEGF pathway.

Campbell JD(1), Lakshmanan R(1), Selvaraju V(1), Accorsi D(2), McFadden DW(3), 
Maulik N(4), Thirunavukkarasu M(5).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Cardiology and Angiogenesis Laboratory, University of Connecticut 
Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA; Department of Surgery, University of 
Connecticut Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA.
(2)Molecular Cardiology and Angiogenesis Laboratory, University of Connecticut 
Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA; Department of Surgery, University of 
Connecticut Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA; Stanley J. Dudrick, Department of 
Surgery, Saint Mary's Hospital, Waterbury 06706, CT, USA.
(3)Department of Surgery, University of Connecticut Health, Farmington 06030, 
CT, USA.
(4)Molecular Cardiology and Angiogenesis Laboratory, University of Connecticut 
Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA; Department of Surgery, University of 
Connecticut Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA. Electronic address: 
nmaulik@uchc.edu.
(5)Molecular Cardiology and Angiogenesis Laboratory, University of Connecticut 
Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA; Department of Surgery, University of 
Connecticut Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA. Electronic address: 
mthirunavukkarasu@uchc.edu.

Despite recent advancements, mortality due to coronary heart disease (CHD) 
remains high. Recently, the use of tissue-engineered grafts and scaffolds has 
emerged as a candidate for supporting the myocardium after an ischemic event. 
Resveratrol is a naturally occurring plant-based non-flavonoid polyphenolic 
compound found in many natural foods, including grapes and red wine. We embedded 
resveratrol in a polycaprolactone (PCL) scaffold and evaluated the 
cardio-therapeutic effects in a murine model of myocardial infarction (MI), with 
animals being grouped into Sham (S), Myocardial Infarction (MI), MI + PCL, and 
MI + PCL-Resveratrol (MI + PCL-R). After 4 and 8 weeks, echocardiography was 
performed to assess ejection fraction (EF) and fractional shortening (FS), which 
was followed by immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence analysis at 8 weeks. 
The MI + PCL-R group showed a significant improvement in EF and FS compared with 
the MI + PCL group at 4 and 8-weeks post-surgery. PCL-R scaffolds treated hearts 
revealed decreased inflammatory cell infiltration, improved collagen 
extracellular matrix (ECM) secretion and blood vessel network formation 
following MI. The immunofluorescence analysis revealed resveratrol-loaded 
scaffolds promote increased expression of cTnT, Cx-43, Trx-1, and VEGF proteins. 
This study reports resveratrol-mediated rescue of ischemic myocardium when 
delivered through a biodegradable polymeric scaffold system after MI.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2021.120236
PMID: 33539996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: TRX-1 & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Int J Pharm. 2021 Mar 15;597:120236. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2021.120236. Epub 
2021 Feb 1.

Engineered resveratrol-loaded fibrous scaffolds promotes functional cardiac 
repair and regeneration through Thioredoxin-1 mediated VEGF pathway.

Campbell JD(1), Lakshmanan R(1), Selvaraju V(1), Accorsi D(2), McFadden DW(3), 
Maulik N(4), Thirunavukkarasu M(5).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Cardiology and Angiogenesis Laboratory, University of Connecticut 
Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA; Department of Surgery, University of 
Connecticut Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA.
(2)Molecular Cardiology and Angiogenesis Laboratory, University of Connecticut 
Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA; Department of Surgery, University of 
Connecticut Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA; Stanley J. Dudrick, Department of 
Surgery, Saint Mary's Hospital, Waterbury 06706, CT, USA.
(3)Department of Surgery, University of Connecticut Health, Farmington 06030, 
CT, USA.
(4)Molecular Cardiology and Angiogenesis Laboratory, University of Connecticut 
Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA; Department of Surgery, University of 
Connecticut Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA. Electronic address: 
nmaulik@uchc.edu.
(5)Molecular Cardiology and Angiogenesis Laboratory, University of Connecticut 
Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA; Department of Surgery, University of 
Connecticut Health, Farmington 06030, CT, USA. Electronic address: 
mthirunavukkarasu@uchc.edu.

Despite recent advancements, mortality due to coronary heart disease (CHD) 
remains high. Recently, the use of tissue-engineered grafts and scaffolds has 
emerged as a candidate for supporting the myocardium after an ischemic event. 
Resveratrol is a naturally occurring plant-based non-flavonoid polyphenolic 
compound found in many natural foods, including grapes and red wine. We embedded 
resveratrol in a polycaprolactone (PCL) scaffold and evaluated the 
cardio-therapeutic effects in a murine model of myocardial infarction (MI), with 
animals being grouped into Sham (S), Myocardial Infarction (MI), MI + PCL, and 
MI + PCL-Resveratrol (MI + PCL-R). After 4 and 8 weeks, echocardiography was 
performed to assess ejection fraction (EF) and fractional shortening (FS), which 
was followed by immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence analysis at 8 weeks. 
The MI + PCL-R group showed a significant improvement in EF and FS compared with 
the MI + PCL group at 4 and 8-weeks post-surgery. PCL-R scaffolds treated hearts 
revealed decreased inflammatory cell infiltration, improved collagen 
extracellular matrix (ECM) secretion and blood vessel network formation 
following MI. The immunofluorescence analysis revealed resveratrol-loaded 
scaffolds promote increased expression of cTnT, Cx-43, Trx-1, and VEGF proteins. 
This study reports resveratrol-mediated rescue of ischemic myocardium when 
delivered through a biodegradable polymeric scaffold system after MI.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2021.120236
PMID: 33539996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: SEMZUVOLIMAB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: ANTIVIRAL AGENT & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: URSODIOL & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: TRASTUZUMAB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2025 Jul;212(1):57-69. doi:
10.1007/s10549-025-07699-2.  Epub 2025 Apr 28.

Association of statin use on survival outcomes of patients with early-stage 
HER2-positive breast cancer in the APHINITY trial.

Maurer C(1)(2), Agostinetto E(3), Ameye L(3), Lambertini M(4)(5), Martel 
S(6)(7), Ponde N(8), Brandão M(3), Poggio F(5), Ferreira A(9), Schiff R(10), De 
Angelis C(11), Gelber RD(12), Dent S(13), Thomssen C(14), Piccart M(3), de 
Azambuja E(3).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT) Heidelberg, University Hospital and 
German Cancer Research Center Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 460, 69120, 
Heidelberg, Germany. Christian.Maurer@med.uni-heidelberg.de.
(2)Department I of Internal Medicine, Center for Integrated Oncology Aachen Bonn 
Cologne Düsseldorf, Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital Cologne, 
University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany. Christian.Maurer@med.uni-heidelberg.de.
(3)Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB), Hôpital Universitaire de Bruxelles 
(HUB), Institut Jules Bordet, Rue Meylemeersch 90, 1070, Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialties (DiMI), School of 
Medicine, University of Genova, Genoa, Italy.
(5)Department of Medical Oncology, U.O. Clinical Di Oncologia Medica, IRCCS 
Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Genoa, Italy.
(6)Specialised Medicine Department, CISSS Montérégie-Centre/Hôpital Charles-Le 
Moyne, Greenfield Park, Québec, Canada.
(7)Université of Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, Québec, Canada.
(8)Clinical Development Department, Daiichi Sankyo, Morristown, NJ, USA.
(9)Católica Medical School, Universidade Católica Portuguesa, Lisbon, Portugal.
(10)Lester and Sue Smith Breast Center, Departments of Medicine and of Molecular 
and Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.
(11)Medical Oncology Unit, Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, 
University of Naples "Federico II", Naples, Italy.
(12)Harvard Medical School, Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health, Dana-Farber 
Cancer Institute, Frontier Science Foundation, Boston, MA, USA.
(13)Wilmot Cancer Institute, Department of Medicine, University of Rochester, 
Rochester, NY, USA.
(14)Department of Gynaecology, Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Halle 
(Saale), Germany.

PURPOSE: There is evidence that statins might improve the outcome of patients 
with breast cancer. The role of statins in patients with early HER2-positive 
breast cancer is unknown. Therefore, we explored the association between statin 
use and survival outcomes in early HER2-positive breast cancer patients in the 
phase III APHINITY trial (adjuvant pertuzumab/trastuzumab).
METHODS: All patients (intent-to-treat population, n = 4804) were included 
(6.2 years median follow-up database). The primary objective was to investigate 
the association of statin use on invasive disease-free survival (IDFS), distant 
relapse-free interval (DRFI), and overall survival (OS). Patients who received 
statins at baseline, or started statins within 1 year from randomization were 
considered statin users. Survival curves were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier 
method. We used a Cox proportional hazards model for multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: Overall, 423 (8.8%) patients were classified as statin users. They were 
older, more often postmenopausal, had a higher body mass index, more often 
diabetes, hypertension, coronary heart disease and hyperlipidemia, had smaller 
sized tumors, were treated more often with breast conserving surgery, and less 
often with anthracycline-containing regimens. Overall, 508 IDFS events (12.8% 
among statin users and 10.4% among non-statin users) and 272 deaths (8.5% and 
5.4%, respectively) occurred. In multivariate analysis, statin use was not 
associated with IDFS (HR, 1.11; 95% CI, 0.80-1.52), DRFI (HR, 1.21; 95% CI, 
0.81-1.81) nor OS (HR, 1.16; 95% CI, 0.78-1.73).
CONCLUSION: In APHINITY, statin use was not associated with improved survival 
outcomes. These results must be interpreted with caution due to the exploratory 
nature of the analysis and the associated limitations.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-025-07699-2
PMCID: PMC12086115
PMID: 40293644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: There are no 
conflicts of interest related to the study design or its results. Christian 
Maurer declares travel grants from Mundipharma, Amgen, Servier Deutschland GmbH, 
Abbvie, and consulting fees from Abbvie, Celgene/BMS and Pfizer. He received 
honoraria for lectures from Daiichi Synkyo and Novartis. Elisa Agostinetto 
declares advisory board and/or honoraria from Eli Lilly, Sandoz, AstraZeneca, 
Abscint; she declares research grant to her Institution from Gilead, 
meeting/travel grants from Novartis, Roche, Eli Lilly, Genetic, Istituto 
Gentili, Daiichi Sankyo, and AstraZeneca (all outside the present work). Lieveke 
Ameye declares no conflict of interests. Matteo Lambertini declares advisory 
role for Roche, Lilly, Novartis, Astrazeneca, Pfizer, Seagen, Gilead, MSD and 
Exact Sciences and speaker honoraria from Roche, Lilly, Novartis, Astrazeneca, 
Pfizer, Sandoz, Libbs, Daiichi Sankyo, Knight, Ipsen and Takeda, travel grants 
from Gilead and Daiichi Sankyo, and research support (to the Institution) from 
Gilead outside the submitted work. Noam Ponde is an employee of IQVIA Biotech. 
Mariana Brandão declares advisory board fees and/or honoraria from Roche/GNE, 
Janssen, BMS, Amgen, Takeda, Pierre-Fabre, travel grants from Roche/GNE, Sanofi 
and Takeda and research grants to her institution from Roche/GNE, AstraZeneca, 
GSK/Novartis and Servier. Francesca Poggio declares advisory board fees and/or 
honoraria from EliLilly, Novartis, AstraZeneca, Daichii Sankyo, and Seagen, 
meeting travel from Gilead, Pfizer, Pierre Fabre. Arlindo Ferreira declares 
honoraria and/or advisory board fees from Daiichi Sankyo, Gilead, Merck Sharp & 
Dohme, Novartis, Roche and travel grants from Roche. He is an employee of 
Resilience. Rachel Schiff declares research funding/grants to her institution 
(past and present) from AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Puma, Biotechnology Inc, 
and Gilead Sciences, speaker honoraria and/or travel expenses from Binaytara 
Foundation and Dava Oncology, LP, and advisory board fees from Eli Lilly Daiichi 
Sankyo (Ad hoc), and Macrogenics. She declares royalties from UpToDate, is 
co-inventor in the Baylor College of Medicine’s pending patent application # 
PCT/US21/70543 (Methods for breast cancer treatment and prediction of 
therapeutic response), and has served as a member of the SABCS (Breast cancer 
symposium) Faculty/Planning Committees. Carmine De Angelis declares advisory 
role for Roche, Lilly, Novartis, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Seagen, Daichi Sankyo, 
Gilead, and GSK and speaker honoraria from Roche, Lilly, Novartis, Pfizer, 
Seagen, GSK, Gilead, and Daiichi Sankyo. He declares travel grants from Gilead 
and research support (to the Institution) from Novartis, GILEAD, and 
Daiichi-Sankyo outside the submitted work. He is co-inventor in the Patent 
application # PCT/US21/70543 (Methods for breast cancer treatment and prediction 
of therapeutic response). Richard D Gelber declares institutional funding from 
Roche, AstraZeneca, Merck. Susan Dent declares grant funding and honararia from 
Novartis. Christoph Thomssen declares advisory role and/or speaker honoraria 
from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Aurikamed GmbH, Daiichi Sankyo, Gilead, Hexal, Joerg 
Eickeler, Lilly, Medupdate GmbH, Medicultus Kassel GmbH, MSD, Novartis, 
Onkowissen TV, Pfizer, Roche, Roland Berger GmbH, Seagen, Streamedup GmbH. 
Martine Piccart is board member from Oncolytics and declares honoraria from 
AstraZeneca, Gilead, Lilly, Menarini, MSD, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche-Genentech, 
Seattle Genetics, Seagen, NBE Therapeutics, Frame Therapeutics. She declares 
institutional research grants from AstraZeneca, Lilly, Menarini, MSD, Novartis, 
Pfizer, Radius, Roche-Genentech, Servier, Synthon, Gilead. Evandro de Azambuja 
declares honoraria and/or advisory board from Roche/GNE, Novartis, SeaGen, 
Zodiac, Libbs, Pierre Fabre, Lilly, Astra-Zeneca, MSD, Gilead Sciences; Travel 
grants from Roche/GNE and AstraZeneca; he declares research grant to his 
institution from Roche/GNE, AstraZeneca, and GSK/Novartis, Gilead Sciences; he 
is ESMO director of Membership 2023–2024 and BSMO President 2023-2026. Ethical 
approval: Here we present an exploratory analysis of the APHINITY trial. The 
institutional review board at each participating center approved the APHINITY 
trial protocol. Consent to participate: All patients in APHINITY provided 
written informed consent. Consent to publish: Not applicable as the manuscript 
does not contain any individual person’s data.


2. Sci Rep. 2022 Aug 22;12(1):14312. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-18342-1.

Cardiac safety analysis of anti-HER2-targeted therapy in early breast cancer.

Zhang L(#)(1)(2), Wang Y(#)(1)(2), Meng W(1)(2), Zhao W(1)(2), Tong Z(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast Oncology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute 
and Hospital, National Clinical Research Center for Cancer, West Huanhu Road, 
Tianjin, 300060, People's Republic of China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer Prevention and Treatment, Tianjin Medical 
University, Ministry of Education, Tianjin' Clinical Research Center for Cancer, 
Tianjin, 300060, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Breast Oncology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute 
and Hospital, National Clinical Research Center for Cancer, West Huanhu Road, 
Tianjin, 300060, People's Republic of China. tongzs163@163.com.
(4)Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer Prevention and Treatment, Tianjin Medical 
University, Ministry of Education, Tianjin' Clinical Research Center for Cancer, 
Tianjin, 300060, People's Republic of China. tongzs163@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

To evaluate the cardiac safety of anti-HER2-targeted therapy for early breast 
cancer; to investigate whether trastuzumab combined with pertuzumab increases 
cardiac toxicity compared with trastuzumab; to evaluate the predictive value 
of high-sensitivity Troponin (hs-TnI) and QTc for the cardiotoxicity associated 
with anti-HER2 targeted therapy in early breast cancer. A total of 420 patients 
with early-stage HER2-positive breast cancer who received trastuzumab or 
trastuzumab combined with pertuzumab for more than half a year in Tianjin 
Medical University Cancer Hospital from January 2018 to February 2021 were 
included. Left ventricle ejection fraction (LVEF), hs-TnI values, and QTc were 
measured at baseline and 3, 6, 9, 12 months. Cardiotoxicity was defined as a 
decrease in LVEF of at least 10 percentage points from baseline on follow-up 
echocardiography. Cardiotoxicity developed in 67 of the 420 patients (15.9%) and 
all patients had LVEF above 50% before and after treatment. The incidence of 
cardiotoxicity in trastuzumab and trastuzumab combined with pertuzumab was 14.3% 
and 17.9%, respectively (P > 0.05). Logistic regression analysis showed that 
age, coronary heart disease, left chest wall radiotherapy, and anthracyclines 
sequential therapy were independent risk factors for cardiotoxicity (P < 0.05). 
The value of hs-TnI and QTc at the end of treatment (12th month) were selected 
for ROC curve prediction analysis and the area under the ROC curve was 0.724 and 
0.713, respectively, which was significantly different from the area of 0.5 
(P < 0.05). The decrease of LVEF in the study was mostly asymptomatic, from the 
heart safety point of view, the anti-HER2 targeted therapy for early breast 
cancer was well tolerated. Trastuzumab combined with pertuzumab did not 
significantly increase cardiotoxicity. However, subgroup analysis suggests that 
in the presence of coronary artery disease (CAD) and sequential treatment with 
anthracene, trastuzumab and pertuzumab may increase the cardiac burden compared 
with trastuzumab. Hs-TnI and QTc may be useful in monitoring and predicting 
cardiotoxicity associated with anti-HER2 targeted therapy for early breast 
cancer.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-022-18342-1
PMCID: PMC9395410
PMID: 35995984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


3. Front Oncol. 2022 Jun 17;12:899782. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2022.899782. eCollection
 2022.

Risk Factors for Anthracycline-Induced Cardiotoxicity in Breast Cancer 
Treatment: A Meta-Analysis.

Zhang M(1), Yang H(1), Xu C(2), Jin F(3), Zheng A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Burn Plastic Surgery, Chaoyang Central Hospital, Chaoyang, 
China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Chaoyang Central Hospital, Chaoyang, China.
(3)Department of Breast Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang, China.

BACKGROUND: Anthracyclines play an important role in the treatment of breast 
cancer (BC) and other malignant tumors. However, accompanied side-effects are 
non-ignorable. The purpose of this meta-analysis is to determine the risk 
factors for anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity (ACT), so as to identify 
high-risk patients.
METHODS: The search for literature was conducted in PubMed, The Cochrane 
Library, Embase and Web of science. Records were selected with inclusion 
criteria and exclusion criteria. The newcastle-ottawa scale (NOS) was used to 
assess the quality of literature, and Review Manager 5.3 software was used for 
meta-analysis.
RESULTS: Thirteen studies met the inclusion criteria. Meta-analysis indicated 
that risk factors for ACT were use of trastuzumab (odds ratio [OR]: 2.84, 95% 
confidence interval [CI]: 2.49-3.22, p < 0.00001), cumulative dose of 
anthracyclines (OR: 1.45, 95%CI: 1.28-1.65, p < 0.00001), hypertension (OR: 
2.95, 95%CI: 1.75-4.97, p < 0.0001), diabetes mellitus (DM) (OR: 1.39, 95%CI: 
1.20-1.61, p < 0.0001), tumor metastasis (OR: 1.91, 95%CI: 1.17-3.11, p = 0.009) 
and coronary heart disease (CAD) (OR: 2.17, 95%CI: 1.50-3.15, p < 0.0001). In 
addition, our analysis revealed that body mass index (BMI) had no effect on ACT 
(OR: 1.18, 95%CI: 0.98-1.43, p = 0.08).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with high risk for ACT can be identified by these factors. 
For such patients, a higher level of monitoring and protection for the cardiac 
function should be performed by clinicians.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: INPLASY, identifier INPLASY202250140.

Copyright © 2022 Zhang, Yang, Xu, Jin and Zheng.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2022.899782
PMCID: PMC9248259
PMID: 35785172

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


4. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2017 Jan;101(1):65-80. doi: 10.1002/cpt.552. Epub 2016
Nov  26.

Cardiovascular Toxicities of Small Molecule Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors: An 
Opportunity for Systems-Based Approaches.

Brown SA(1), Nhola L(1), Herrmann J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, 
USA.

Once universally considered a rapidly fatal condition, cancer has increasingly 
become a chronic medical condition and comorbidities and adverse effects of 
cancer therapies have become increasingly significant. One of the leading 
advancements that has gained traction for the treatment of a variety of 
malignancies is the class of small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). 
Although, in many aspects revolutionary, TKIs have their own profile of side 
effects, including cardiovascular side effects, the most common being 
hypertension (HTN), congestive heart failure, corrected QT (QTc) prolongation, 
and instances of premature coronary heart disease. Herein, we describe the 
mechanisms of small TKI-induced cardiovascular toxicity and related 
intracellular signaling. In particular, systems-based approaches to the 
understanding of small TKI-induced cardiovascular toxicity are addressed. The 
pathophysiology of synergic cardiovascular toxicity from TKIs, anthracyclines, 
and monoclonal antibodies (e.g., trastuzumab, bevacizumab) is illustrated. 
Finally, recommendations are made for implementing systems medicine in clinical 
practice, for individualized cardiovascular wellness after cancer therapy.

© 2016 American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1002/cpt.552
PMID: 27806435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 2013 Dec;67(3):434-45. doi: 
10.1016/j.yrtph.2013.09.002. Epub 2013 Sep 10.

Influence of mitochondrion-toxic agents on the cardiovascular system.

Finsterer J(1), Ohnsorge P.

Author information:
(1)Krankenanstalt Rudolfstiftung, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: 
fifigs1@yahoo.de.

Cardiovascular disease may be induced or worsened by mitochondrion-toxic agents. 
Mitochondrion-toxic agents may be classified as those with or without a clinical 
effect, those which induce cardiac disease only in humans or animals or both, as 
prescribed drugs, illicit drugs, exotoxins, or nutritiants, as those which 
affect the heart exclusively or also other organs, as those which are effective 
only in patients with a mitochondrial disorder or cardiac disease or also in 
healthy subjects, or as solid, liquid, or volatile agents. In humans, 
cardiotoxic agents due to mitochondrial dysfunction include anthracyclines 
(particularly doxorubicin), mitoxantrone, cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, 
fluorouracil, imatinib, bortezomib, trastuzumab, arsenic trioxide, 
cyclosporine-A, zidovudine, lamotrigine, glycosides, lidocain, isoproterenol, 
nitroprusside, pivalic acid, alcohol, cocaine, pesticides, cadmium, mycotoxins, 
cyanotoxins, meat meal, or carbon monoxide. Even more agents exhibit cardiac 
abnormalities due to mitochondrion-toxicity only in animals or tissue cultures. 
The mitochondrion-toxic effect results from impairment of the respiratory chain, 
the oxidative phosphorylation, the Krebs cycle, or the β-oxidation, from 
decrease of the mitochondrion-membrane potential, from increased oxidative 
stress, reduced anti-oxidative capacity, or from induction of apoptosis. Cardiac 
abnormalities induced via these mechanisms include cardiomyopathy, myocarditis, 
coronary heart disease, arrhythmias, heart failure, or Takotsubo syndrome. 
Discontinuation of the cardiotoxic agent results in complete recovery in the 
majority of the cases. Antioxidants and nutritiants may be of additional help. 
Particularly coenzyme-Q, riboflavin, vitamin-E, vitamin-C, L-carnitine, 
vitamin-D, thiamin, folic acid, omega-3 fatty acids, and D-ribose may alleviate 
mitochondrial cardiotoxic effects.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yrtph.2013.09.002
PMID: 24036395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: FUMARIC ACID & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Immunopharmacol Immunotoxicol. 2022 Apr;44(2):178-185. doi: 
10.1080/08923973.2021.2025245. Epub 2022 Jan 12.

Immunosuppressive effects of dimethyl fumarate on dendritic cell maturation and 
migration: a potent protector for coronary heart disease.

Sun Z(1)(2), Liu X(1), Liu Y(2), Zhao X(3), Zang X(2), Wang F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Shanghai General Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, The Affiliated Changzhou No.2 People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, Changzhou, China.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China.

Dendritic cells (DCs), as a bridge between innate and adaptive immunity, play 
key roles in atherogenesis, particularly in plaque rupture, the underlying 
pathophysiologic cause of myocardial infarction. Targeting DC functions, 
including maturation and migration to atherosclerotic plaques, may be a novel 
therapeutic approach to atherosclerotic disease. Dimethyl fumarate (DMF), an 
agent consisting of a combination of fumaric acid esters, in current study were 
found to be able to suppress DC maturation by reducing the expression of 
costimulatory molecules and MHC class II and by blocking cytokine secretion. In 
addition, DMF efficiently inhibited the migration of activated DCs in vitro and 
in vivo by reducing the expression of chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7). Additionally, 
DMF efficiently inhibited the expression of the costimulatory molecule CD86, as 
well as the chemokine receptor CCR7 and the C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 
(CXCR4), in healthy donor-derived purified DCs that had been stimulated by 
ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patient serum. This study 
points to the potent therapeutic value of DMF for protecting against 
cardiovascular disease by suppressing DC functions.

DOI: 10.1080/08923973.2021.2025245
PMID: 35016591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: IBUPROFEN, SODIUM SALT & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: RECOMBINANT INTERLEUKIN-1-BETA & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: METHYLPREDNISOLONE & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Am Heart J. 1999 Apr;137(4 Pt 2):S14-S24. doi: 10.1016/s0002-8703(99)70392-3.

Chronopharmacology and chronotherapy of cardiovascular medications: relevance to 
prevention and treatment of coronary heart disease.

Smolensky MH(1), Portaluppi F.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas, School of Public Health Sciences Center, Houston, TX, 
USA.

Biological functions and processes, including cardiovascular ones, exhibit 
significant circadian (24-hour) and other period rhythms. Ambulatory blood 
pressure assessment reveals marked circadian rhythms in blood pressure both in 
normotensive persons and hypertensive patients, whereas Holter monitoring 
substantiates day-night patterns in electrocardiographic events of patients with 
ischemic heart disease. The concept of homeostasis, that is, constancy of the 
milieu interne, which has dominated the teaching, research, and practice of 
medicine during the 20th century,is now being challenged by emerging concepts 
from the field of chronobiology-the science of biological rhythms. Epidemiologic 
studies document the heightened morning-time risk of angina, myocardial 
infarction, and stroke. Circadian rhythms in coronary tone and reactivity, 
plasma volume, blood pressure, heart rate, myocardial oxygen demand, blood 
coagulation, and neuroendocrine function plus day-night patterns in the nature 
and strength of environmental triggers all contribute to this morning 
vulnerability. Homeostatically devised pharmacotherapies, that is, medications 
formulated to ensure a near-constant drug concentration, may not be optimal to 
adequately control diseases that vary in risk and severity during the 24 hours. 
Moreover, circadian rhythms in the physiology of the gastrointestinal tract, 
vital organs, and body tissues may give rise to administration-time differences 
in the pharmacokinetics and effects of therapies. Thus the same medication 
consumed in the same dose under identical conditions in the evening and morning 
may not exhibit comparable pharmacokinetics and dynamics. New technology makes 
possible chronotherapy, that is, increase of the efficiency and safety of 
medications by proportioning their concentrations during the 24 hours in 
synchrony with biological rhythm determinants of disease. The chronotherapy of 
peptic ulcer disease achieved by the evening dosing of H 2-receptor antagonists 
and of asthma by the evening dosing of special drug delivery forms of 
theophylline and morning methylprednisolone administration has proven to be 
beneficial. Controlled-onset extended-release verapamil constitutes the first 
chronotherapy of essential hypertension and ischemic heart disease; once-a-day 
bedtime dosing results in a high drug concentration in the morning and afternoon 
and a reduced one overnight. Studies demonstrate effective 24-hour control of 
blood pressure, including the attenuation of its rapid rise in the morning, 
without induction of nighttime hypotension. Moreover, this formulation 
effectively controls angina, especially in the morning when the risk of ischemia 
is greatest. Determination of the role of verapamil chronotherapy in the primary 
prevention of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality awaits the results of the 
CONVINCE trial now in progress.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-8703(99)70392-3
PMID: 10097242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Acta Med Scand Suppl. 1982;668:161-97. doi:
10.1111/j.0954-6820.1982.tb08539.x.

Usefulness of multiaxis echocardiography in assessment of the left ventricle in 
ischemic heart disease. A review.

Nieminen MS, Heikkilä J.

Echoventriculography, a multiaxis M-mode echocardiographic technique, was 
developed to examine in detail the regional wall motions of the left ventricle. 
The basic technical aspects and limitations are described, and experience is 
reviewed on 263 healthy subjects or patients with ischaemic heart disease. The 
reliability in detecting site and size of asynergic segments was excellent as 
related to electrocardiographic and thallium scintigraphic sites of acute 
infarction, and with left ventricular cineangiograms in chronic coronary heart 
disease. The correlation with pathologic anatomic size of infarct in 24 
consecutive patients was r = 0.88 (p less than 0.001) when expressed by a 
percentage of the left ventricular horizontal circumference. 94% of 111 
infarcted segments were correctly detected by echo; only the posteroseptal and 
the most lateral regions remain out of the methodological range. The method 
separated old infarct scars from fresh necrosis. Decreasing echo contraction 
index correlated with increasing severity of coronary obstructions in 43 
patients studied for coronary artery surgery. In 15 infarct patients the M-mode 
technique was more sensitive than two-dimensional echocardiography in recording 
asynergic segments or endocardial echoes. The multiple segmental 
echoventriculographic index decreased parallel with clinical severity of acute 
infarction (r = -0.79, p less than 0.001; 30 patients). There was a 88% (p less 
than 0.01) concordance between the reduction of the ST segments (-30%) and the 
recovery of the mechanical function in the ischaemic myocardial segments (+26%) 
after beta blockade with pindolol in 22 patients with acute infarction. 
Methylprednisolone showed no improvement. With dopamine the left ventricular 
size decreased markedly (p less than 0.0005). Echoventriculography thus seems to 
be very informative in evaluation of chronic or acute left ventricular 
dysfunction, despite the rather demanding nature of the technique in practice.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1982.tb08539.x
PMID: 6762808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: EMAPALUMAB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: MELPHALAN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: FONTOLIZUMAB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: AMITRIPTYLINE HYDROCHLORIDE & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Arch Intern Med. 2002 Aug 12-26;162(15):1707-12. doi: 
10.1001/archinte.162.15.1707.

Inappropriate drug prescribing in home-dwelling, elderly patients: a 
population-based survey.

Pitkala KH(1), Strandberg TE, Tilvis RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Geriatric Clinic, Helsinki University Hospital, 
Finland. kaisu.pitkala@hus.fi

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2002 Aug 12-26;162(15):1670-2. doi: 
10.1001/archinte.162.15.1670.

BACKGROUND: In 1997, a US expert panel developed explicit criteria on 
potentially inappropriate drugs for the general elderly population.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the proportion of inappropriate medications among 
home-dwelling, elderly patients in Helsinki, Finland, between November 1, 1998, 
and March 31, 1999.
METHODS: A cross-sectional mail survey was sent to a random sample of 3921 
elderly urban residents aged 75, 80, 85, 90, and 95 years. Of these, 3219 were 
home dwellers.
MAIN OUTCOMES MEASURES: Prevalence of potentially inappropriate drugs and 
prevalence of drugs considered inappropriate related to 15 common medical 
conditions according to recommendations given by the expert panel in 1997.
RESULTS: The response rate was 78%. Of the respondents, 12.5%, 1.3%, and 0.2% 
were taking at least 1, 2, or 3 inappropriate drugs, respectively. The most 
prevalent inappropriate drugs were dipyridamole (3.6%), long-acting 
benzodiazepines (2.6%), amitriptyline hydrochloride (1.6%), ergot mesyloids 
(1.6%), muscle relaxants (1.2%), and meprobamate (1.1%). Use of medications 
considered inappropriate with certain medical conditions was higher: 27.2% of 
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease were taking beta-blockers 
and 19.3% used sedatives. Of diabetic individuals taking oral hypoglycemics or 
insulin, 32.5% were taking a concomitant beta-blocker. Of those with a 
peripheral vascular disease, 37.9% were taking beta-blockers. However, two 
thirds of all these patient groups had concomitant coronary heart disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with previous surveys, the use of inappropriate 
medications in our home-dwelling, elderly population is conspicuously low. In 
contrast, use of certain drugs considered inappropriate with different medical 
conditions was relatively high. However, the inappropriateness of the latter 
treatments may be questioned in individual patients.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.162.15.1707
PMID: 12153373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: BLEOMYCIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Clin Appl Thromb Hemost. 2007 Oct;13(4):439-42. doi: 10.1177/1076029607303334.

Acute anterior myocardial infarction after chemotherapy for testicular seminoma 
in a young patient.

Ozben B(1), Kurt R, Oflaz H, Sezer M, Basaran M, Goren T, Umman S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey. 
bestes@doctor.com

Testicular cancer is the most common solid tumor among young men aged 15 to 35 
years. Combination chemotherapy with cisplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin remains 
the mainstay of treatment. We present a 27-year-old man who presented with an 
acute anterior myocardial infarction during the second course of chemotherapy 
for seminoma. Because the patient had no significant risk factors for coronary 
heart disease, the infarction was likely caused by the chemotherapy regimen.

DOI: 10.1177/1076029607303334
PMID: 17911198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. J Clin Oncol. 2006 Jan 20;24(3):467-75. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2005.02.7193.

Long-term risk of cardiovascular disease in 5-year survivors of testicular 
cancer.

van den Belt-Dusebout AW(1), Nuver J, de Wit R, Gietema JA, ten Bokkel Huinink 
WW, Rodrigus PT, Schimmel EC, Aleman BM, van Leeuwen FE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, the Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the long-term risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in 
survivors of testicular cancer (TC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We compared CVD incidence in 2,512 5-year survivors of TC, 
who were treated between 1965 and 1995, with general population rates. Treatment 
effects on CVD risk were quantified in multivariate Cox regression analysis.
RESULTS: After a median follow-up of 18.4 years, 694 cardiovascular events 
occurred, including 141 acute myocardial infarctions (MIs). The standardized 
incidence ratio (SIR) for coronary heart disease was 1.17 (95% CI, 1.04 to 
1.31), with 14 excess cases per 10,000 person-years. The SIR for MI was 
significantly increased in nonseminoma survivors with attained ages of less than 
45 (SIR = 2.06) and 45 to 54 years (SIR = 1.86) but significantly decreased for 
survivors with attained ages of 55 years or older (SIR = 0.53). In Cox analysis, 
mediastinal irradiation was associated with a 3.7-fold (95% CI, 2.2- to 
6.2-fold) increased MI risk compared with surgery alone, whereas 
infradiaphragmatic irradiation was not associated with an increased MI risk. 
Cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin (PVB) chemotherapy (CT) was associated 
with a 1.9-fold (95% CI, 1.7- to 2.0-fold) increased MI risk, and bleomycin, 
etoposide, and cisplatin (BEP) CT was associated with a 1.5-fold (95% CI, 1.0- 
to 2.2-fold) increased CVD risk and was not associated with increased MI risk 
(hazard ratio = 1.2; 95% CI, 0.7 to 2.1). Recent smoking was associated with a 
2.6-fold (95% CI, 1.8- to 3.9-fold) increased MI risk.
CONCLUSION: Nonseminomatous TC survivors experience a moderately increased MI 
risk at young ages. Physicians should be aware of excess CVD risk associated 
with mediastinal radiotherapy, PVB CT, and recent smoking. Intervention in 
modifiable cardiovascular risk factors is especially important in TC survivors. 
Whether BEP treatment increases CVD risk should be evaluated after more 
prolonged follow-up.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2005.02.7193
PMID: 16421423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Tumori. 2000 Sep-Oct;86(5):428-30. doi: 10.1177/030089160008600513.

Early myocardial infarction during chemotherapy for testicular cancer.

Bachmeyer C(1), Joly H, Jorest R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, H pital Laénnec, Creil, France.

A 36-year-old man with testicular cancer had an acute myocardial infarction 
during the first course of chemotherapy with bleomycin, etoposide and cisplatin. 
Since the patient had no significant risk factors for coronary heart disease, 
the infarction was likely to be attributable to the chemotherapy regimen. The 
physiopathological mechanisms of this causal relationship are discussed here.

DOI: 10.1177/030089160008600513
PMID: 11130576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: SURAMIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: DOXIFLURIDINE & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: THERAPEUTIC AUTOLOGOUS LYMPHOCYTES & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: AMG-811 & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: PREDNISONE & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Exp Ther Med. 2024 Nov 29;29(2):26. doi: 10.3892/etm.2024.12776. eCollection 
2025 Feb.

Prostate artery embolization as an effective treatment for clinically 
significant prostate cancer‑related hemorrhage: A case report.

Kozyrakis D(1), Konstantinopoulos V(1), Papaspyridakos P(2), Zarkadas A(1), 
Bozios D(1), Karmogiannis A(1), Haronis G(1), Konomi AM(1), Kallinikas G(1), 
Safioleas K(1), Mytiliniou D(1), Filios A(1), Rodinos E(1), Filios P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Konstantopouleio-Patision General Hospital of Nea 
Ionia, 14233 Nea Ionia, Greece.
(2)Department of Interventional Radiology, KAT Hospital, 14561 Kifisia, Greece.

A 79-year old Caucasian male with metastatic hormone refractory prostate cancer 
and bilateral nephrostomy was admitted to the emergency department due to 4-day 
bloody urethral discharge, weakness and dizziness. The patient was treated with 
the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-antagonist and abiraterone acetate 
plus prednisone, dabigatran 150 mg bid (for atrial fibrillation and coronary 
heart disease) and 5-aminosalicylic acid for the management of mild ulcerative 
colitis. Imaging revealed bladder overdistention and blood analysis low levels 
of hematocrit (HCT) and hemoglobin (HGB) (HCT, 22%; HGB, 7.1 gr/dl). A 22F, 
3-way urethral catheter was placed, and blood clots were removed with a syringe. 
Continuous normal saline irrigation was initiated, and the dabigatran was 
withdrawn; however, no evidence of control of blood loss was shown. Computed 
tomography and urography revealed a large prostate lesion invading the bladder 
neck, a pelvic lymph-node block and lack of blood extravasation. Diagnostic 
urethrocystoscopy revealed diffuse hematuria from the prostate lesion and 
bladder neck. Bipolar coagulation was performed in the absence of any 
significant improvement. Upon withdrawal of intravesical irrigation, the oral 
consumption of a large water volume (a useful measure to control hematuria and 
avoid clot formation) could not be applied to the patient due to urine storage 
and normal voiding being not feasible. Subsequently, the patient was informed on 
the option of superselective arterial embolization (SAE). Following signing of 
the relevant consent form, the patient underwent bilateral SAE of prostatic and 
inferior cystic arteries, while he was in heparin delivery. Dabigatran was 
re-administered on the 5th postprocedural day and the catheter was removed 
following 5 days. Following a 4-month follow-up, the patient's condition was 
stable with no traceable hematuria. In conclusion, the minimal invasiveness of 
SAE is an attractive option, notably in patients with cardiovascular 
comorbidities. It appears to be a safe alternative with an acceptable rate of 
minor complications. The encouraging results and the survival outcomes warrant 
further evaluation with comparative prospective multicenter studies.

Copyright © 2024, Spandidos Publications.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2024.12776
PMCID: PMC11667420
PMID: 39720669

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


2. Oncologist. 2024 Nov 18:oyae308. doi: 10.1093/oncolo/oyae308. Online ahead of 
print.

Leptin levels are associated with coronary artery calcification in patients with 
advanced prostate cancer.

Koutroumpakis E(1), Venkatesh N(2), Aparicio A(3), Song J(4), Panaretakis T(3), 
Deswal A(1), Logothetis CJ(3), Frigo DE(3)(5), Hahn AW(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Division of Internal Medicine, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, United States.
(2)Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, United 
States.
(3)Department of Genitourinary Medical Oncology, Division of Cancer Medicine, 
The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, United 
States.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX 770304, United States.
(5)Department of Cancer Systems Imaging, Division of Diagnostic Imaging, The 
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, United States.

BACKGROUND: Convergent data suggest that advanced prostate cancer and coronary 
heart disease (CHD) share biological vulnerabilities that may be linked to 
adiposity. Here we explore whether leptin, as a marker and mediator of 
adiposity, could link prostate cancer to CHD.
METHODS: Patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) 
enrolled in a phase II trial (NCT02703623) studying androgen deprivation 
therapy, abiraterone, prednisone, and apalutamide were eligible if they had 
plasma and a chest CT scan available. Coronary artery calcium (CAC) scores and 
adipokine levels were measured upon enrollment.
RESULTS: Of 164 patients, 87% were white. The mean age was 65.6 ± 7.5 years, 88% 
were either overweight or obese, 59% had hypertension, 48% had hyperlipidemia 
(HLD), 20% had type 2 diabetes mellitus, and 41% were former or current smokers. 
Coronary calcifications were found in 115 patients (70%). Among 47 patients with 
non-contrast chest CT scans, the median total CAC score was 133 AU (IQR 
22.6-704.6). Four patients (9%) had a score of 0 AU (low risk) and 24 (51%) 
scores ≥100 AU, associated with high risk for major adverse cardiovascular 
events. Leptin levels correlated positively with the right coronary artery (RCA) 
CAC score [Pearson correlation coefficient (ρ) = 0.3715 (P = .0142)]. In a 
multivariate logistic regression analysis, older age, HLD, and higher leptin 
levels were independently associated with RCA calcification and a higher number 
of calcified coronary arteries.
CONCLUSION: Among men with mCRPC, there was a high burden of CHD, and higher 
leptin levels were associated with coronary atherosclerosis independently of 
traditional cardiac risk factors.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/oncolo/oyae308
PMID: 39557398


3. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2023 May 12;14:1158949. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2023.1158949. eCollection 2023.

Abiraterone acetate and prednisone in metastatic castration-resistant prostate 
cancer: a real-world retrospective study in China.

Liu M(1), Yan J(1), Le K(1), Li Y(1), Xing N(2), Li G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, National Cancer Center/National Clinical Research 
Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Urology, National Cancer Center/National Clinical Research 
Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: This research work was aimed at evaluating the incidence and risk 
factors of adverse events (AEs) occurring in patients treated with abiraterone 
acetate (AA) and prednisone (PDN) outside clinical trials. These associations 
were assessed regarding the survival outcomes.
METHODS: The study included 191 patients aged ≥18 years of confirmed metastatic 
castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) between March 2017 and April 2022. 
AE incidences were descriptively summarized from the whole cohort. Baseline 
characteristics, safety (treatment-emergent AEs and severe AEs), and efficacy 
[progression-free survival (PFS)] were analyzed. Multi-variable Cox proportional 
hazards models were employed to assess the factors linked with PFS.
RESULTS: Overall, the median PFS was 17.16 months (range, 0.5-57.58). Patient 
baseline prostate-specific antigen (PSA) ≧̸10 ng/ml (p = 0.000), multiple organ 
metastasis (p = 0.007), hypertension (p = 0.004), and coronary heart disease (p 
= 0.004) were associated with worse PFS; however, radiotherapy (p = 0.028) was 
linked to better PFS at univariate analysis in the overall cohort. Baseline 
multiple organ metastasis, hypertension, and radiotherapy remained statistically 
significant in multivariable models (p = 0.007, p= 0.005, and p = 0.011, 
respectively).Incidence of AEs showed increased bilirubin (BIL) (55/191 
patients, 28.8%) followed by increased alanine aminotransferase/aspartate 
aminotransferase (ALT/AST) (48/191 patients, 25.09%). The most common grade 3 
AEs were increased ALT (3/191, 1.57%) followed by elevated BIL, 
hypercholesterolemia, and hypokalemia. Anemia had shorter PFS. There were no 
unexpected AEs in any patient.
CONCLUSION: AA is effective and tolerated in asymptomatic or slightly 
symptomatic mCRPC in "real-life" setting. The survival outcomes are influenced 
by multiple organ metastasis, hypertension, and radiotherapy.

Copyright © 2023 Liu, Yan, Le, Li, Xing and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2023.1158949
PMCID: PMC10213513
PMID: 37251681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


4. Tissue Eng Part A. 2022 May;28(9-10):394-404. doi: 10.1089/ten.TEA.2021.0118. 
Epub 2022 Jan 4.

Poly (ɛ-Caprolactone-co-l,l-Lactide) Vascular External Sheath Carrying 
Prednisone for Improving Patency Rate of the Vein Graft.

Wang Y(1)(2), Tao M(1), Wei H(3), Arslan Ahmad M(1), Ma Y(1), Mao X(1), Hao 
L(2), Ao Q(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Tissue Enguneering, School of Intelligent Medicine, China 
Medical University, Shenyang, China.
(2)Department of Chemistry, School of Forensic Medicine, China Medical 
University, Shenyang, China.
(3)Department of Cardiac Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital, China Medical 
University, Shenyang, China.
(4)NMPA Key Laboratory for Quality Research and Control of Tissue Regenerative 
Biomaterial & Institute of Regulatory Science for Medical Devices & NMPA 
Research Base of Regulatory Science for Medical Devices, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, China.

Coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery is an impactful treatment for 
coronary heart disease. Intimal hyperplasia is the central reason for the 
restenosis of vein grafts (VGs) after CABG. The introduction of external 
vascular sheaths around VGs can effectively inhibit intimal hyperplasia and 
ensure the patency of VGs. In this study, the well-known biodegradable copolymer 
poly (ɛ-caprolactone-co-l,l-lactide) (PLCL) was electrospun into high porosity 
external sheaths. The prednisone loaded in the PLCL sheath was slowly released 
during the degradation process of PLCL. Under the combined effects of sheath and 
prednisone, intimal hyperplasia was inhibited. For the cell experiments, all 
sheaths show low cytotoxicity to L929 cells at different concentrations at 
different time intervals. The ultrasonography and histological results showed 
prominent dilation and intimal hyperplasia of VG without sheath after 2 months 
of surgery. But there was no dilation in PLCL and PLCLPrednisone groups. Of 
note, the prednisone-loaded sheath group exhibited efficacy in inhibiting 
intimal hyperplasia and ensured graft patency. Impact statement To inhibit 
intimal hyperplasia after coronary artery bypass graft, the use of external 
vascular sheaths can prevent vein graft (VG) dilatation, then reduce turbulent 
blood flow shear stress to vessel wall, and lower the stimulation of shear 
stress to smooth muscle cells (SMCs), so as to prevent the proliferation and 
migration of vascular SMC. We provide a biodegradable sheath electrospun by poly 
(ɛ-caprolactone-co-l,l-lactide) (PLCL) loading prednisone and utilize it around 
VG in animal models. Vascular ultrasound examinations show strong evidence of 
vascular patency. The histological alterations of VGs in PLCLPrednisone group 
gave a narrower intima layer owing to the inhibition effect of prednisone.

DOI: 10.1089/ten.TEA.2021.0118
PMID: 34605672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Chin Med Sci J. 2021 Jun 30;36(2):120-126. doi: 10.24920/003856.

Sudden Sensorineural Hearing Loss after Pituitary Adenoma Resection-A Case 
Series with Literature Review.

Wang Y(1), Zhang ZH(2), Lian W(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology,Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100730, 
China.
(2)Department of Clinical Radiology,Peking Union Medical College Hospital, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 
100730, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100730, 
China.

Objective Complications after transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenoma have 
been well documented in the literatures, but the occurrence of delayed sudden 
sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) after pituitary adenoma resection is extremely 
rare. In this study three cases who developed sudden SNHL 3 to 7 days after 
pituitary adenoma surgery without experiencing cerebrospinal fluid leak or 
meningitis were presented, and the possible causes of SNHL were discussed. 
Methods Three cases with sudden hearing loss after transsphenoidal surgery for 
pituitary adenoma were reviewed. The past medical history, onset of sudden 
hearing loss, accompanying symptoms such as headache, tinnitus, dizziness and 
aural fullness, and the post-operative MRI images, therapy, and hearing results 
were reported. Results Three cases developed profound sudden SNHL on the 3rd to 
7th post-operative day, all accompanied by prior headache, tinnitus and 
dizziness. One patient developed episodic vertigo, ear fullness accompanying 
with fluctuating hearing loss in the first post-operative month. Two patients 
had past medical history of arteriosclerosis and coronary heart disease or 
cerebral infarction. Two of three demonstrated obstructive hydrocephalus on MRI 
on the first post-operative day. Under treatment with prednisone orally, 
dexamethasone intratympanic injection, neurotrophic and vasodilatation drugs for 
3 to 8 months, hearing of all three improved partially. Obstructive 
hydrocephalus and ischemia might be responsible for the hearing loss. Conclusion 
Post-operative obstructive hydrocephalus and ischemia of labyrinthine arteries 
might lead to the delayed SNHL after transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary 
adenoma.

DOI: 10.24920/003856
PMID: 34231460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: EDRECOLOMAB & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: INTERFERON ALFA-2B & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Przegl Epidemiol. 2005;59(2):385-94.

[Epidemic outbreak of acute hepatitis C--clinical course, histology and 
effectiveness of therapy].

[Article in Polish]

Cianciara J(1), Jabłońska J, Horban A, Walewska-Zielecka B.

Author information:
(1)Klinika Hepatologii i Nabytych Niedoborów Immunologicznych Instytutu Chorób, 
Zakaźnych i Pasozytniczych AM w Warszawie. liver@zigzag.pl

An epidemic outbreak of HCV infection was observed in the center of 
nonconventional therapy, when patients with stable coronary heart disease and 
arteriosclerosis obliterans were treated. They received drop infusions with 
chelate therapy with unknown medicine. We diagnosed acute hepatitis C in 15 
patients (mean age 61). All were positive for HCV RNA, had known exposure to HCV 
within the preceding 3 months and elevated serum ALT value 2-10 ULN. 12 out of 
15 patients had documented seroconversion to anti-HCV. In 6 patients liver 
biopsy was performed. Acute viral hepatitis was diagnosed in 4 cases (of mild 
activity in 2 cases and of moderate activity in the other two cases). In two 
remaining cases histology required differentiation diagnosis (one with non 
alcoholic steatohepatitis and one with exacerbation of chronic hepatitis). 
Different forms of hepatocyte degeneration and steatosis were observed in all 
cases. Considering the possibility to chronicity we decided to treat 10 
patients, while remaining 5 had contraindications to interferon therapy. There 
was no control group. Patients were treated with pegylated alfa 2b interferon 
1.5 mcg/kg/week and ribavirin 1000-1200 mg/d, for 12 weeks. Side effects appear 
minimal. In no case therapy was interrupted. Sustained viral response (SVR) and 
normalization of ALT were observed in 6 out of 10 treated patients (1 with 
jaundice and 5 asymptomatic). Two untreated subjects had spontaneous recovery. 
We found that administration of pegylated interferon alfa-2b and ribavirin 1-6 
months after the appearance of jaundice or significant elevation of ALT activity 
could prevent progression to chronic infection. This therapy appears to be 
effective and safe in asymptomatic infection and among others in adult patients 
with stable coronary heart disease. Our results confirmed the previous 
observations mentioned by others that treatment of acute hepatitis C with 
pegylated interferon and ribavirin may lead to cure.

PMID: 16190545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: CISPLATIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Dec;108:1081-1089. doi:
10.1016/j.biopha.2018.09.095.  Epub 2018 Sep 28.

Tongmai Yangxin pills anti-oxidative stress alleviates cisplatin-induced 
cardiotoxicity: Network pharmacology analysis and experimental evidence.

Cui Y(1), Li C(2), Zeng C(3), Li J(4), Zhu Z(2), Chen W(2), Huang A(5), Qi X(6).

Author information:
(1)Graduate school, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, 
300193, China; Department of Cardiology, Tianjin Union Medical Center, Tianjin, 
300121, China.
(2)Graduate school, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, 
300193, China.
(3)Graduate school, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, 300070, China.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Tianjin Union Medical Center, Tianjin, 300121, 
China.
(5)School of Medicine, Nankai University, Tianjin, 300071, China.
(6)Department of Cardiology, Tianjin Union Medical Center, Tianjin, 300121, 
China. Electronic address: qixinx2011@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Tongmai Yangxin Pills (TMYXP), a traditional Chinese patent 
medicine, has been widely used to treat coronary heart disease for few decades. 
However, the potential protective effect of TMYXP on cisplatin-induced 
cardiotoxicity has not been reported.
METHODS: The target proteins corresponding to compounds from Pharmmapper 
database, PubMed database and ChEMBL database were collected and construct a 
'TMYXP-compound-target' network. DAVID database was used for annotation and 
enrichment pathways and String 9.1 database was used for analysis the 
protein-protein interaction. Cisplatin-induced rat cardiotoxicity model was 
established to verify the protective effects mechanism of TMYXP.
RESULTS: The target proteins corresponding to compounds from multiple databases 
were collected and construct a TCM-compound-target network to enriched pathways 
with high enrichment score. GO analysis and enrichment clusters point that 
response of oxidative stress is the main biological process of TMYXP, and Nrf2 
signaling pathway and MAPK signaling pathway might be the key functional 
pathways. In vivo experiments, we proved that TMYXP improves anti-oxidative 
stress ability and reduce apoptosis through regulating Nrf2/HO-1 pathway and 
p38-MAPK pathway.
CONCLUSION: The effects of TMYXP on regulate cardiomyocyte free radical balance 
and reduce apoptosis, making it possible as a drug candidate for platinum 
chemotherapeutic induced cardiac injury.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.09.095
PMID: 30372808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 2013 Dec;67(3):434-45. doi: 
10.1016/j.yrtph.2013.09.002. Epub 2013 Sep 10.

Influence of mitochondrion-toxic agents on the cardiovascular system.

Finsterer J(1), Ohnsorge P.

Author information:
(1)Krankenanstalt Rudolfstiftung, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: 
fifigs1@yahoo.de.

Cardiovascular disease may be induced or worsened by mitochondrion-toxic agents. 
Mitochondrion-toxic agents may be classified as those with or without a clinical 
effect, those which induce cardiac disease only in humans or animals or both, as 
prescribed drugs, illicit drugs, exotoxins, or nutritiants, as those which 
affect the heart exclusively or also other organs, as those which are effective 
only in patients with a mitochondrial disorder or cardiac disease or also in 
healthy subjects, or as solid, liquid, or volatile agents. In humans, 
cardiotoxic agents due to mitochondrial dysfunction include anthracyclines 
(particularly doxorubicin), mitoxantrone, cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, 
fluorouracil, imatinib, bortezomib, trastuzumab, arsenic trioxide, 
cyclosporine-A, zidovudine, lamotrigine, glycosides, lidocain, isoproterenol, 
nitroprusside, pivalic acid, alcohol, cocaine, pesticides, cadmium, mycotoxins, 
cyanotoxins, meat meal, or carbon monoxide. Even more agents exhibit cardiac 
abnormalities due to mitochondrion-toxicity only in animals or tissue cultures. 
The mitochondrion-toxic effect results from impairment of the respiratory chain, 
the oxidative phosphorylation, the Krebs cycle, or the β-oxidation, from 
decrease of the mitochondrion-membrane potential, from increased oxidative 
stress, reduced anti-oxidative capacity, or from induction of apoptosis. Cardiac 
abnormalities induced via these mechanisms include cardiomyopathy, myocarditis, 
coronary heart disease, arrhythmias, heart failure, or Takotsubo syndrome. 
Discontinuation of the cardiotoxic agent results in complete recovery in the 
majority of the cases. Antioxidants and nutritiants may be of additional help. 
Particularly coenzyme-Q, riboflavin, vitamin-E, vitamin-C, L-carnitine, 
vitamin-D, thiamin, folic acid, omega-3 fatty acids, and D-ribose may alleviate 
mitochondrial cardiotoxic effects.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yrtph.2013.09.002
PMID: 24036395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. World J Cardiol. 2013 Aug 26;5(8):305-12. doi: 10.4330/wjc.v5.i8.305.

Blood cellular mutant LXR-α protein stability governs initiation of coronary 
heart disease.

Arora M(1), Kaul D, Sharma YP.

Author information:
(1)Mansi Arora, Deepak Kaul, Yash Paul Sharma, Department of Experimental 
Medicine, Biotechnology and Cardiology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical 
Education and Research, Chandigarh 160012, India.

AIM: To investigate the role of [breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility 1 
(BRCA1)-associated RING domain 1 (BARD1)]/BRCA1 E3-ubiquitin ligase complex in 
governing the stability of mutant liver X receptor-α (LXR-α) protein in coronary 
heart disease (CHD) subjects.
METHODS: The expression analysis of various genes was carried out by 
quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction and western blotting within 
blood mononuclear cells of human CHD subjects at various stages of coronary 
occlusion and their corresponding normal healthy counterparts. 
Immunoprecipitation experiments were performed to establish protein interactions 
between LXR-α and BARD1. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were cultured and 
exposed to Vitamin D3 and Cisplatin to validate the degradation of mutant LXR-α 
protein in CHD subjects by BARD1/BRCA1 complex.
RESULTS: The expression of mutant LXR-α protein in CHD subjects was found to 
decrease gradually with the severity of coronary occlusion exhibiting a strong 
negative correlation, r = -0.975 at P < 0.001. Further, the expression of BARD1 
and BRCA1 also increased with the disease severity, r = 0.895 and 0.873 
respectively (P < 0.001). Immunoprecipitation studies established that 
BARD1/BRCA1 complex degrades mutant LXR-α via ubiquitination. The absence of 
functional LXR-α protein resulted in increased expression of inflammatory 
cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8 and interferon-γ and decreased 
expression of ABCA1 (ATP-binding cassette A1) (r = 0.932, 0.949, 0.918 and 
-0.902 with respect to Gensini score; P < 0.001). Additionally, cell culture 
experiments proved that Vitamin D3 could prevent the degradation of mutant LXR-α 
and restore its functional activity to some extent.
CONCLUSION: Mutant LXR-α protein in CHD subjects is degraded by BARD1/BRCA1 
complex and Vitamin D3 can rescue and restore its function.

DOI: 10.4330/wjc.v5.i8.305
PMCID: PMC3761184
PMID: 24009820


4. Klin Onkol. 2011;24(1):18-22.

[Coronary heart disease and hypertension as late effects of testicular cancer 
treatment--a minireview].

[Article in Slovak]

Valentová M(1), Mladosievicová B.

Author information:
(1)Oddelenie klinickej patofyziológie LF UK v Bratislave, Slovenská republika.

The modern treatment of testicular cancer has led to notable improvement in the 
prognosis of these patients. A significant number of testicular cancer survivors 
suffer from late effects of their treatment that can occur several years after 
the treatment. Cardiovascular late effects represent one of the most serious 
effects with respect to their life-threatening potential. Considering the higher 
risk of coronary heart disease, numerous studies have investigated the 
prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors in patients treated for testicular 
cancer. Higher prevalence of hypertension in patients after treatment for 
testicular cancer may be one of the reasons for their serious cardiovascular 
morbidity and mortality.The aim of this is to summarize the current knowledge on 
the impact of review treatment modalities used in testicular cancer therapy on 
prevalence of hypertension and its pathogenetic context. Both chemotherapy and 
radiotherapy are associated with increased prevalence of hypertension several 
years after completing the treatment. In patients treated with chemotherapy, 
hypertension is associated with administration of cisplatin. Cisplatin remains 
in organism for up to 20 years after administration and may lead to endothelial 
dysfunction. Regular and long-term monitoring of cardiovascular risk should be 
introduced to ensure better quality of life in these patients.

PMID: 21542272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Herz. 2010 Sep;35(6):420-2. doi: 10.1007/s00059-010-3367-6.

Acute myocardial infarction in a patient with chronic myelocytic leukemia during 
chemotherapy with hydroxyurea.

Kälsch H(1), Wieneke H, Erbel R.

Author information:
(1)West German Heart Center Essen, Department of Cardiology, University Hospital 
Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany. Hagen.Kaelsch@uk-essen.de

BACKGROUND: Cardiac toxicity is a known side effect of chemotherapeutics such as 
5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or cisplatin. Chest pain with ECG changes, arrhythmias, 
acute myocardial infarction (AMI), heart failure and sudden death have been 
described in the literature.
CASE STUDY: We report the first case of AMI in a 59-year-old male patient with 
chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML) during chemotherapy with hydroxyurea. The 
patient was not affected by prior heart disease and did not reveal any classic 
risk factors for coronary heart disease. Because of the severe thrombocytopenia 
(23000/μl), no acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) or clopidogrel were given but low dose 
heparin (400 U/h). Urgent coronary angiography revealed complete thrombotic 
occlusion of the proximal left descending coronary artery.
CONCLUSION: This case reveals that AMI can occur during chemotherapy with 
hydroxyurea in patients without prior heart disease. The pathogenesis of this 
phenomenon remains hitherto unclear. Coronary artery spasm, lesions of the 
endothelium as well as coagulation disorders have been postulated to explain 
this side effect of hydroxyurea.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-010-3367-6
PMID: 20721521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: AMIKACIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: THEOPHYLLINE & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Nutrition. 2021 Apr;84:111121. doi: 10.1016/j.nut.2020.111121. Epub 2020 Dec
14.

Association of urinary caffeine and caffeine metabolites with cardiovascular 
disease risk in adults.

Weng Z(1), Xu C(1), Xu J(2), Jiang Z(3), Liu Q(1), Liang J(1), Gu A(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Reproductive Medicine, School of Public Health, 
Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China; Key Laboratory of Modern Toxicology 
of Ministry of Education, Center for Global Health, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Reproductive Medicine, School of Public Health, 
Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China; Key Laboratory of Modern Toxicology 
of Ministry of Education, Center for Global Health, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, China; Department of Maternal, Child, and Adolescent Health, School of 
Public Health, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.
(3)Center of Gallbladder Disease, Shanghai East Hospital, Institute of Gallstone 
Disease, Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.. Electronic 
address: zhaoyan.jiang@qq.com.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Reproductive Medicine, School of Public Health, 
Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China; Key Laboratory of Modern Toxicology 
of Ministry of Education, Center for Global Health, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, China. Electronic address: Aihuagu@njmu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVES: Studies have shown that the consumption of a moderate amount of 
caffeine is associated with a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and 
may even be protective against CVD. The purpose of the current study was to 
evaluate the association between urinary caffeine and its related metabolites 
and CVD risk in a national representative sample of US adults.
METHODS: We analyzed cross-sectional data from the US National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey from 2009 and 2010. The associations between the 
levels of urinary caffeine metabolites and self-reported CVD, including 
congestive heart failure, coronary heart disease, angina, heart attack, and 
stroke, were examined separately in men and women using multivariate logistic 
regression models adjusted for covariates.
RESULTS: In total, 1916 participants (910 men and 1006 women) were included in 
the analysis. Among women, the odds ratios of CVD in the highest quartiles of 
1,3-dimethylxanthine and 1,3,7-trimethylxanthine were 0.33 (95% confidence 
interval [CI], 0.12-0.92) and 0.35 (95% CI, 0.13-0.93), respectively, compared 
with the lowest quartiles. Each one-unit (µmol/L) increase in theophylline 
concentration was associated with a 0.24-mg/dL increase in high-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol in the fully adjusted model. Among men, no significant 
association was observed between urinary caffeine metabolites and CVD. Regarding 
the subtypes of CVD, compared with women in the lowest quartile for 
1,3-dimethylxanthine and 1,3,7-trimethylxanthine, the odds of coronary heart 
disease decreased by 90% (95% CI, -99% to -11%) and 97% (95% CI, -99% to -47%), 
respectively, in those in the highest quartile.
CONCLUSIONS: Urinary 1,3-dimethylxanthine and 1,3,7-trimethylxanthine were 
significantly and inversely associated with CVDs in women. Additional studies 
are needed to further confirm the results of this study and explore the 
underlying mechanisms.<END ABSTRACT>.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nut.2020.111121
PMID: 33515809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2019 Jul;39(7):1475-1482. doi: 
10.1161/ATVBAHA.118.312236. Epub 2019 May 16.

Metabolomic Pattern Predicts Incident Coronary Heart Disease.

Wang Z(1), Zhu C(1), Nambi V(2)(3), Morrison AC(1), Folsom AR(4), Ballantyne 
CM(3)(5), Boerwinkle E(1)(6), Yu B(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Human Genetics Center, University of Texas Health Science Center at 
Houston (Z.W., C.Z., A.C.M., E.B., B.Y.).
(2)Michael E. Debakey Veterans Affairs Hospital, Houston, TX (V.N.).
(3)Division of Atherosclerosis and Vascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, 
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX (V.N., C.M.B.).
(4)Division of Epidemiology and Community Health, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis (A.R.F.).
(5)Center for Cardiovascular Disease Prevention, Methodist DeBakey Heart Center, 
Houston, TX (C.M.B.).
(6)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 
(E.B.).

Comment in
    Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2019 Aug;39(8):e186. doi: 
10.1161/ATVBAHA.119.313009.
    Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2019 Aug;39(8):e187. doi: 
10.1161/ATVBAHA.119.313013.

Objective- Alterations in the serum metabolome may be detectable in at-risk 
individuals before the onset of coronary heart disease (CHD). Identifying 
metabolomic signatures associated with CHD may provide insight into disease 
pathophysiology and prevention. Approach and Results- Metabolomic profiling 
(chromatography-mass spectrometry) was performed in 2232 African Americans and 
1366 European Americans from the ARIC study (Atherosclerosis Risk in 
Communities). We applied Cox regression with least absolute shrinkage and 
selection operator to select metabolites associated with incident CHD. A 
metabolite risk score was constructed to evaluate whether the metabolite risk 
score predicted CHD risk beyond traditional risk factors. After 30 years of 
follow-up, we observed 633 incident CHD cases. Thirty-two metabolites were 
selected by least absolute shrinkage and selection operator to be associated 
with CHD, and 19 of the 32 showed significant individual associations with CHD, 
including a sugar substitute, erythritol. Theophylline (hazard ratio [95% CI] 
=1.16 [1.09-1.25]) and gamma-linolenic acid (hazard ratio [95% CI] =0.89 
[0.81-0.97]) showed the greatest positive and negative associations with CHD, 
respectively. A 1 SD greater standardized metabolite risk score was associated 
with a 1.37-fold higher risk of CHD (hazard ratio [95% CI] =1.37 [1.27-1.47]). 
Adding the metabolite risk score to the traditional risk factors significantly 
improved model predictive performance (30-year risk prediction: Δ C statistics 
[95% CI] =0.016 [0.008-0.024], continuous net reclassification index [95% CI] 
=0.522 [0.480-0.556], integrated discrimination index [95% CI] =0.038 
[0.019-0.065]). Conclusions- We identified 19 metabolites from known and novel 
metabolic pathways that collectively improved CHD risk prediction. Visual 
Overview- An online visual overview is available for this article.

DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.118.312236
PMCID: PMC6839698
PMID: 31092011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Ann Pharmacother. 2019 Mar;53(3):316-320. doi: 10.1177/1060028018806624. Epub 
2018 Oct 11.

Theophylline and Caffeine as Alternatives During an Aminophylline Shortage.

Singleton EL(1), Le N(1), Ness GL(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Belmont University College of Pharmacy, Nashville, TN, USA.

The latest aminophylline shortage has prompted a need for alternative reversal 
agents for pharmacological stress testing. Cardiac stress testing is common for 
diagnosis and prognosis in patients with coronary heart disease. Options for 
pharmacological stress test agents include adenosine, regadenoson, dipyridamole, 
and dobutamine, whereas aminophylline is the recommended reversal agent. 
Adenosine and dobutamine can be used as alternatives to regadenoson and 
dipyridamole to decrease or eliminate the use of aminophylline. Alternatives to 
aminophylline include theophylline and caffeine. It is important to efficiently 
identify alternatives during a drug shortage to maintain optimal patient 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1177/1060028018806624
PMID: 30304941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Cent Eur J Immunol. 2017;42(2):131-139. doi: 10.5114/ceji.2017.68719. Epub
2017  Aug 8.

The effect of pentoxifylline on L-1 sarcoma tumor growth and angiogenesis in 
Balb/c mice.

Bałan BJ(1), Demkow U(2), Skopiński P(3), Bychawska M(4), Skopińska-Różewska 
E(5), Lewicki S(5), Zdanowski R(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Biochemistry and Nutrition, Warsaw Medical 
University, Poland.
(2)Department of Laboratory Diagnostics and Clinical Immunology of Developmental 
Age, Warsaw Medical University, Poland.
(3)Department of Histology and Embryology, Center for Biostructure Research, 
Warsaw Medical University, Poland.
(4)Central Laboratory Warsaw, DIAGNOSTYKA Ltd, Krakow, Poland.
(5)Military Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology, Warsaw, Poland.

Methyloxantines are present in many herbs and vegetal foods, among them in tea, 
coffee and chocolate. Previous studies revealed that theophylline and 
theobromine have anti-angiogenic properties. Anti-tumor properties of 
theobromine were also described. Pentoxifylline 
(3,7-dimethyl-1-(5-oxohexyl)xanthine, PTX) is a synthetic xanthine derivative. 
It is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor and has various anti-inflammatory abilities. 
Pentoxifylline is widely used in therapy of inflammatory arterial diseases such 
as intermittent claudication of upper and lower limbs as well as in coronary 
heart disease. The aim of our research was to evaluate the effect of 
pentoxifylline (individually and in combination with non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drug sulindac), on L-1 sarcoma angiogenic activity and tumor 
formation in syngeneic Balb/c mice. Pre-incubation of tumor cells for 90 min 
with various PTX concentrations resulted in dose-dependent decrease of their 
ability to induce newly-formed blood vessels after transplantation into the skin 
of recipient mice. Administration of PTX to mice, recipients of tumor cells, 
slows tumor growth and reduces its volume. Synergistic inhibitory effect of PTX 
and sulindac, expressed as % of tumors sixth and thirteen day after subcutaneous 
grafting of L-1 sarcoma into syngeneic Balb/c mice, was observed.

DOI: 10.5114/ceji.2017.68719
PMCID: PMC5573883
PMID: 28860931

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


5. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2011 Oct;38(10):658-65. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1681.2011.05550.x.

Cilostazol protects the heart against ischaemia reperfusion injury in a rabbit 
model of myocardial infarction: focus on adenosine, nitric oxide and 
mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels.

Bai Y(1), Muqier, Murakami H, Iwasa M, Sumi S, Yamada Y, Ushikoshi H, Aoyama T, 
Nishigaki K, Takemura G, Uno B, Minatoguchi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine, Gifu 
Pharmaceutical University, Gifu, Japan.

Comment in
    Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2011 Oct;38(10):651-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1681.2011.05564.x.

1. The present study examined whether or not cilostazol reduces the myocardial 
infarct size, and investigated its mechanism in a rabbit model of myocardial 
infarction. 2. Japanese white rabbits underwent 30 min of coronary occlusion, 
followed by 48 h of reperfusion. Cilostazol (1 and 5 mg/kg) or vehicle was given 
intravenously 5 min before ischaemia. 8-p-sulfophenyl theophylline (8SPT; an 
adenosine receptor blocker, 7.5 mg/kg), Nω-nitro-L-arginine methylester (l-NAME; 
an NOS inhibitor, 10 mg/kg) or 5-hydroxydecanoic acid sodium salt (5-HD; a 
mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channel blocker, 5 mg/kg) was given 
intravenously 5 min before cilostazol injection. Infarct size was determined as 
a percentage of the risk area. 3. The myocardial interstitial levels of 
adenosine and nitrogen oxide (NOx) during ischaemia and reperfusion, and the 
intensity of myocardial dihydroethidium staining were determined. 4. Infarct 
size was significantly reduced in the cilostazol 1 mg/kg (38.4% (2.9%)) and 
cilostazol 5 mg/kg (30.7% (4.7%)) groups compared with that in the control group 
(46.5% (4.2%)). The infarct size-reducing effect of cilostazol was completely 
abolished by 8SPT (46.6% (3.5%)), L-NAME (49.0% (5.5%)), or 5HD (48.5% (5.1%)). 
8SPT, L-NAME or 5HD alone did not affect the infarct size. Cilostazol treatment 
significantly increased myocardial levels of adenosine and NOx during ischaemia, 
and attenuated the intensity of dihydroethidium staining during reperfusion. 5. 
These findings show that cilostazol reduces the myocardial infarct size by 
increasing adenosine and NOx levels, attenuating superoxide production and 
opening the mitochondrial KATP channels. Cilostazol might provide a new strategy 
for the treatment of coronary heart disease.

© 2011 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Pharmacology and Physiology © 2011 
Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1681.2011.05550.x
PMID: 21679220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: PEFLOXACIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: THROMBIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Cells. 2024 Oct 16;13(20):1712. doi: 10.3390/cells13201712.

Platelet Function, Platelet Size and Content of Reticulated Platelets: 
Interactions in Patients Receiving Dual Antiplatelet Therapy.

Bodrova VV(1), Shustova ON(1), Golubeva NV(1), Alieva AK(1), Vlodzyanovsky 
VV(1), Pevzner DV(1), Mazurov AV(1).

Author information:
(1)Chazov National Medical Research Center of Cardiology, Russian Ministry of 
Health, 15a, Academician Chazov Str., Moscow 121552, Russia.

Increased platelet activity is a risk factor of thrombotic events in 
cardiovascular patients. We studied the relationship between platelet function, 
platelet size, and the content of reticulated platelets (RP) in patients with 
coronary heart disease (CHD, n = 55) and acute coronary syndrome (ACS, n = 95) 
receiving acetylsalicylic acid + clopidogrel or ticagrelor, respectively. The 
control group consisted of patients with risk factors for CHD, but with no 
CHD/ACS and free of antiplatelet drugs (n = 66). Platelet function was evaluated 
by the exposure of activated glycoprotein (GP) IIb-IIIa and P-selectin. In the 
control group, platelets were activated by TRAP (Thrombin Receptor Activating 
Peptide) 10 µM, and ADP 20, 5, 2.5 µM, and in the CHD/ACS groups, by TRAP 10 µM, 
and ADP 20 5 µM (±epinephrine 20 µM). Platelet size was assessed by the mean 
volume, % large forms, and forward scattering. RP were stained by thiazole 
orange. In the control group, activated GP IIb-IIIa and P-selectin correlated 
with platelet size and RP content after platelet activation by all agonists. 
Despite the decrease in platelet activity by antiplatelet drugs, most 
correlations (primarily for activated GP IIb-IIIa) were preserved in the CHD/ACS 
patients. In conclusion, increased platelet size and RP content are associated 
with increased platelet activity and the reduced efficacy of antiplatelet 
therapy.

DOI: 10.3390/cells13201712
PMCID: PMC11506637
PMID: 39451230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


2. Comput Biol Med. 2024 Nov;182:109085. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109085. 
Epub 2024 Sep 8.

Full connected layer model with self-attention to hourly predict heparin dosage 
for perioperative cardiac surgery patients.

Liu S(1), Su L(1), Jiang H(2), Wei Z(3), Yang B(3), Xie J(3), Guo A(4), He H(1), 
Zhu W(5), Long Y(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Critical Care Medicine, State Key Laboratory of Complex Severe 
and Rare Diseases, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Peking Union Medical 
College, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, China.
(2)Department of Information Center, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, 
Peking Union Medical College, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, China.
(3)Goodwill Hessian Health Technology Co. Ltd, Beijing, China.
(4)Department of General Medicine, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Peking 
Union Medical College, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, China.
(5)Department of General Medicine, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Peking 
Union Medical College, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, China. Electronic 
address: zhuwg@pumch.cn.
(6)Department of Critical Care Medicine, State Key Laboratory of Complex Severe 
and Rare Diseases, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Peking Union Medical 
College, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, China. Electronic address: 
icu_longyun@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Anticoagulant therapy for patients who underwent cardiac surgery is 
a challenge. Both inadequate and excessive anticoagulation can cause fatal 
complications. Previous studies failed to provide real-time guidance for heparin 
pump speed adjustment. This study intended to provide a quantitative prediction 
model to optimize heparin dosage for cardiac surgery patients based on machine 
learning method.
METHODS: Patients who underwent cardiac surgery and admitted to intensive care 
unit in Peking Union Medical College Hospital (PUMCH) from January 2013 to 
December 2023 were retrospectively analyzed. In order to reach target activated 
partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), linear regression, SVM, XGBoost, LSTM, GRU, 
FC (Full Connected Layer) and FC + self-attention models were used to make 
hourly adjustment recommendation for administrations of heparin pump speed. Mean 
absolute square, and absolute percentage errors were used to evaluate the 
reliability of the models. SHAP method and feature cumulative effect were used 
to interpret the features of the FC + self-attention model. Safety and economic 
evaluation based on clinical compliance of this real-world data-oriented model 
was further analyzed.
RESULTS: A total of 1080 patients including 112,554 heparin pump administrations 
were included in this study. Among seven candidate models, FC + self-attention 
model yielded the lowest mean absolute error of 0.9388 and 1.1325 in test and 
validation cohort. Gap to target aPTT, thrombin time, history of coronary heart 
disease, previous duration of arterial fibrillation and prothrombin activity 
were identified as important features affecting heparin adjustment. High 
compliance to FC + self-attention model may increase percentage of normal 
therapeutic time and decrease supratherapeutic therapeutic time and reducing 
blood draw until two consecutive normal therapeutic stabilization of aPTT.
CONCLUSIONS: This FC + self-attention model is potentially applicable for giving 
recommendation for healthcare providers to optimize heparin dosage for cardiac 
surgery patients.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109085
PMID: 39244960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.


3. J Pers Med. 2024 Feb 16;14(2):213. doi: 10.3390/jpm14020213.

LPL rs264, PROCR rs867186 and PDGF rs974819 Gene Polymorphisms in Patients with 
Unstable Angina.

Malinowski D(1), Safranow K(2), Pawlik A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacokinetics and Therapeutic Drug Monitoring, Pomeranian 
Medical University, 70-111 Szczecin, Poland.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Medical Chemistry, Pomeranian Medical 
University, 70-111 Szczecin, Poland.
(3)Department of Physiology, Pomeranian Medical University, 70-111 Szczecin, 
Poland.

BACKGROUND: Coronary artery disease is caused by changes in the coronary 
arteries due to the atherosclerotic process and thrombotic changes. A very 
important role in the development of the atherosclerotic process in the coronary 
vessels is played by the inflammatory process and the immune response. Due to 
the important role of lipids and the coagulation process in the atherosclerotic 
process, research has also focused on genes affecting lipid metabolism and the 
coagulation system. Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is an enzyme that metabolises 
lipids, hydrolysing triglycerides to produce free fatty acids and glycerol. 
Protein C (PC) is an essential component of coagulation and fibrinolysis. It is 
activated on the endothelial surface by the membrane-bound 
thrombin-thrombomodulin complex. Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) has a 
number of important functions in processes related to fibroblast and smooth 
muscle cell function. Due to their influence on lipid metabolism and coagulation 
processes, LPL, PROCR (endothelial cell protein C receptor) and PDGF may affect 
the atherosclerotic process and, thus, the risk of coronary heart disease. The 
aim of the study was to examine the associations between the LPL rs264, PROCR 
rs867186 and PDGF rs974819 gene polymorphisms and the risk of unstable angina 
and selected clinical parameters.
METHODS: The study included 232 patients with unstable angina and 144 healthy 
subjects as the control group. Genotyping was performed using real-time PCR.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences in the distribution 
of the polymorphisms tested between the patients with unstable angina and the 
control subjects. The results showed associations between the PROCR rs867186 and 
PDGF rs974819 polymorphisms and some clinical parameters in patients with 
unstable angina. In patients with the PDGF rs974819 CC genotype, there were 
increased values for cholesterol and LDL serum levels in comparison with 
patients with the PDGF rs974819 CT and TT genotypes. In patients with the PROCR 
rs867186 AA genotype, HDL serum levels were lower than in patients with the GA 
genotype.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study did not show that the LPL rs264, PROCR 
rs867186 and PDGF rs974819 gene polymorphisms were significant risk factors for 
unstable angina in our population. The results of the study suggest that PDGF 
rs974819 and PROCR rs867186 may be associated with some parameters of lipid 
metabolism.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm14020213
PMCID: PMC10890678
PMID: 38392646

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


4. Thromb Res. 2024 Feb;234:94-100. doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2024.01.001. Epub
2024  Jan 6.

High alpha-2-macroglobulin levels are a risk factor for cardiovascular disease 
events: A Moli-sani cohort study.

de Laat-Kremers R(1), Costanzo S(2), Yan Q(3), Di Castelnuovo A(4), De Curtis 
A(2), Cerletti C(2), de Gaetano G(2), Donati MB(2), de Laat B(5), Iacoviello 
L(6); Moli-sani Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Data Analysis and Artificial Intelligence, Synapse Research 
Institute, Maastricht, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
r.delaat@thrombin.com.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Prevention, IRCCS Neuromed, Pozzilli, Italy.
(3)Department of Functional Coagulation, Synapse Research Institute, Maastricht, 
the Netherlands; Department of Biochemistry, CARIM, Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(4)Mediterranea Cardiocentro, Napoli, Italy.
(5)Department of Data Analysis and Artificial Intelligence, Synapse Research 
Institute, Maastricht, the Netherlands; Department of Functional Coagulation, 
Synapse Research Institute, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Epidemiology and Prevention, IRCCS Neuromed, Pozzilli, Italy; 
Research Center in Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine (EPIMED), Department of 
Medicine and Surgery, University of Insubria, Varese, Italy.

BACKGROUND: α2-macroglobulin (α2M) is a versatile endopeptidase inhibitor that 
plays a role in cell growth, inflammation and coagulation. α2M is an inhibitor 
of key coagulation enzyme thrombin. Hypercoagulability due to an excess of 
thrombin production can cause thrombotic events. Therefore, we investigated the 
association of α2M levels and cardiovascular events in a subset of the general 
Italian population.
METHODS: We determined α2M levels in the baseline samples of a prospective 
cohort (n = 19,688; age: 55 ± 12 years; 47.8 % men) of the Moli-sani study and 
investigated the association with the cardiovascular events (n = 432, 2.2 %) in 
the median follow-up period of 4.3 years. Hazard ratios (HR) with 95 % 
confidence intervals (CI) were calculated by multivariable Cox regression and 
adjusted for a large panel of confounding factors.
RESULTS: α2M levels above the 90th percentile were significantly associated with 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) events after full adjustment for age, sex, current 
smoking, BMI, oral contraceptive use, cardiovascular diseases, hypertension, 
hypercholesterolemia, diabetes and history of cancer (HR: 1.36; CI: 1.06-1.74). 
Moreover, high α2M was associated with coronary heart disease (CHD; HR: 1.47; 
CI: 1.12-1.91), but not stroke. Stratification for CVD at baseline showed that 
high α2M levels are associated with CHD events in subjects without CVD at 
baseline (HR: 1.40; CI: 1.00-1.95) and subjects with CVD at baseline (HR: 1.58; 
CI: 1.02-2.44).
CONCLUSION: We show in a prospective cohort that high levels of α2M could be a 
risk factor for cardiovascular events, especially coronary heart disease events.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thromres.2024.01.001
PMID: 38198944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest RdLK, QY, and 
BdL are employees of Synapse Research Institute, part of Diagnostica Stago SAS. 
The other authors declare no competing interests.


5. Medicine (Baltimore). 2023 Sep 15;102(37):e34644. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000034644.

The preliminary development and clinical verification of the positive index 
score scale of "Heart Arthralgia Syndrome".

Xu S(1), Chen S(2), Xu Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, China.
(2)Second Affiliated Hospital of Shandong University of TCM, Jinan, China.

BACKGROUND: In recent years, the age of onset for coronary heart disease (CHD) 
has become one of the leading causes of death worldwide. The medical treatments 
occasionally cause side effects; therefore, there is still an urgent need to 
develop new therapeutic modalities for CHD in clinical practice. "Heart 
Arthralgia Syndrome (HAS)" is a general term for CHD with arthralgia symptoms 
proposed by our team based on clinical experience. At present, there is little 
in-depth research on the treatment of HAS by TCM. Pick Complex Therapy (PCT) is 
an innovative and developed theory of collateral acupuncture therapy for HAS.
METHODS: We collected data from 276 patients who met the criteria for (coronary 
heart disease with numbness of neck, shoulder, waist, and leg). We selected 24 
diagnostic criteria for HAS by means of multiple methods, including Cronbach's α 
coefficient, retest reliability, subjective evaluation, discrete trend, 
Pearson's rank correlation coefficient and factor analysis method. We thereafter 
evaluated the reliability, validity and responsiveness of the scale. In the 
clinical validation phase, we verified whether the preliminary developed 
positive index (PI) scale can guide clinical practice. Forty (40) patients with 
HAS were selected in the study. SPSS23.0 statistical software was used for 
statistical processing and analysis.
RESULTS: Assessment results of the initial PI scale for HAS: the average time to 
complete the scale was 7.47 ± 3.59 minutes. Cronbach's α coefficient for the 
initial table was 0.711, the retest reliability was 0.897, the 
Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin test result was 0.844, and the Bartlett test result was 
2502.300. Following maximum variance rotation analysis, the cumulative variance 
contribution rate was determined to be 66.605%. In the clinical validation phase 
of the PI scale, we tested 40 patients before and after the PCT treatments. 
After 3 measurements, the correlation between the PI scale for HAS and the 
angina pectoris grading scoring method table decreased gradually. The last 2 
measurement results of study indicated that there was a significant correlation 
between the PI scale and thrombin time, while physical and chemical examination 
showed no significant changes.
CONCLUSION: The PI scale for HAS can be widely used in the clinic as a 
preliminary evaluation tool for guiding PCT.

Copyright © 2023 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000034644
PMCID: PMC10508379
PMID: 37713905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.

=== Drug: GANCICLOVIR & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Transpl Int. 2007 Nov;20(11):974-81. doi: 10.1111/j.1432-2277.2007.00526.x.
Epub  2007 Aug 2.

Long-term outcome of cytomegalovirus infection in simultaneous pancreas-kidney 
transplant recipients without ganciclovir prophylaxis.

Rayes N(1), Seehofer D, Kahl A, Kokott S, Pratschke J, Frei U, Neuhaus P.

Author information:
(1)Department of General-, Visceral- and Transplant Surgery, Charité University 
Medicine Berlin, Berlin, Germany. nada.rayes@charite.de

As cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection frequently occurs in simultaneous pancreas 
kidney transplantation (SPKT), most centers use general ganciclovir prophylaxis. 
The aim of the study was to analyze the impact of CMV in a patient cohort with 
preemptive therapy only. Incidence, course and risk factors of CMV infection 
were retrospectively analyzed in 94 adult SPK recipients without prophylaxis. 
Patients with asymptomatic pp65-antigenemia were treated preemptively with 
intravenous ganciclovir for 14 days. Survival rates after 1, 3, and 5 years were 
98%, 97%, and 94% for patients, 96%, 94%, and 88% for renal grafts and 88%, 85%, 
and 82% for pancreas grafts. CMV infections occurred in 51% of patients and CMV 
syndrome in 16%. No tissue-invasive disease was observed. Thirty-eight per cent 
of patients with CMV infection developed a recurrence. Risk factors for CMV in 
multivariate analysis were the D+/R- constellation, acute rejections, 
anti-rejection therapy and coronary heart disease. CMV had no impact on patient 
or graft survival, occurrence of acute or chronic rejection and bacterial 
infections. Preemptive therapy seems to be safe and effective in SPK recipients, 
but as the present study was retrospective, prospective randomized studies are 
needed to confirm our results.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-2277.2007.00526.x
PMID: 17680782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: THERAPEUTIC GLUCOCORTICOID & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: MELATONIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
1. Sleep Med. 2025 Jun;130:1-2. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2025.02.038. Epub 2025 Feb
28.

Parkinson's disease: News on the action of melatonin.

Scorza FA(1), Wuo-Silva R(2), Finsterer J(3), Chaddad-Neto F(4).

Author information:
(1)Disciplina de Neurociência. Escola Paulista de Medicina/Universidade Federal 
de São Paulo (EPM/UNIFESP), São Paulo, Brazil; Departamento de Neurocirurgia. 
Hospital A Beneficência de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil; Departamento de 
Pesquisa da BP. A Beneficência Portuguesa de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Neurologia e Neurocirurgia. Universidade Federal de São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Neurology Neurophysiology Center, Vienna, Austria.
(4)Departamento de Neurocirurgia. Hospital A Beneficência de São Paulo, São 
Paulo, Brazil; Departamento de Neurologia e Neurocirurgia. Universidade Federal 
de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: feres.chaddad@unifesp.br.

Melatonin has been shown to improve sleep quality in Parkinson's disease (PD) 
patients with good safety and tolerability. Beyond its neurological benefits, 
emerging evidence suggests that melatonin may exert cardioprotective effects, 
which could be relevant in the context of sudden unexpected death in PD 
(SUDPAR). PD is associated with high mortality rates, and autonomic dysfunction 
and cardiac abnormalities may play a role in SUDPAR. Translational studies 
suggest that melatonin concentrations could serve as potential biomarkers for 
cardiac dysfunction in PD. Melatonin supplementation has demonstrated 
neuroprotective properties by modulating apoptosis, autophagy, oxidative stress, 
inflammation, α-synuclein aggregation, and dopamine loss. Additionally, clinical 
data indicate that melatonin levels are altered in patients with coronary heart 
disease, heart failure, and stroke. Reduced melatonin production is associated 
with increased risk of cardiac events and sudden cardiac death. Given its 
anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, immunomodulatory, and vasomotor properties, 
melatonin may represent a promising adjunctive therapy for PD, potentially 
mitigating both neurological and cardiovascular risks.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sleep.2025.02.038
PMID: 40068276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


2. J Biochem Mol Toxicol. 2025 Mar;39(3):e70194. doi: 10.1002/jbt.70194.

Mitochondrial Quality Control and Melatonin: A Strategy Against Myocardial 
Injury.

Ghavamikia N(1), Mehrnoosh F(2), Zare F(3), Ali-Khiavi P(3), Sinehsepehr A(4), 
Boushehri YG(5), Vahedinezhad M(6), Abdollahi E(6), Hjazi A(7), Aminnezhad 
S(8)(9), Saffarfar H(8)(9), Hamzehzadeh S(3), Nourizadeh M(10), KarkonShayan 
S(11).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Research Institute, Tehran Heart Center, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology, Faculty of Agriculture and Natural 
Resources, Urmia University, Urmia, Iran.
(3)Student Research Committee, School of Medicine, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(4)School of Medicine, Golestan University of Medical Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
(5)Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(6)Cardiovascular Research Center, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(7)Department of Medical Laboratory, College of Applied Medical Sciences, Prince 
Sattam bin Abdulaziz University, Al-Kharj, Saudi Arabia.
(8)Cardiovascular Research Center, Tehran, Iran.
(9)Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(10)Neurosciences Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(11)Clinical Research Development Unit of Tabriz Valiasr Hospital, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.

Melatonin exhibits various biological functions, including regulation of 
circadian and endocrine rhythms, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant effects. 
Aging and damaged mitochondria are major sources of oxidative stress (OS), and 
mitochondrial quality control (MQC) is crucial for maintaining normal 
mitochondrial function. Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury is a major 
complication that can arise during reperfusion therapy for coronary heart 
disease. However, effective intervention strategies are currently lacking. 
Mitochondrial dysfunction and OS are considered central mechanisms of myocardial 
reperfusion injury, with mitochondrial-targeted interventions being a potential 
treatment direction. Recent studies have shown that melatonin improves 
mitochondrial structure and function through multiple pathways. This review 
discusses the mechanisms by which melatonin ameliorates myocardial 
ischemia-reperfusion injury, focusing on MQC, and explores its potential 
applications in the prevention and treatment of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion 
injury.

© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jbt.70194
PMID: 40009050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Cardiol Rev. 2024 Dec 3. doi: 10.1097/CRD.0000000000000822. Online ahead of 
print.

Unlocking the Heart's Guardian: Exploring Melatonin's Impact on the 
Cardiovascular System.

Said A(1), Shah D(2), Shah P(3), Singh B(4), Anamika F(5), Aggarwal K(6), Gupta 
A(7), Jain R(8).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Medicine, Marshfield Clinic Health System, Marshfield, 
WI.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, GCS Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre, 
Gujarat, India.
(3)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.
(4)Department of Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, NYC Health + 
Hospitals, Queens, NY.
(5)Department of Medicine, Cleveland Clinic, Akron General, Akron, OH.
(6)Department of Medicine, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, 
India.
(7)Amity Regional High School, Woodbridge, CT.
(8)Department of Medicine, Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, 
PA.

Melatonin has become a popular choice for managing insomnia and sleep-related 
issues due to its effectiveness in promoting sleep and its minimal risk of side 
effects. This has led many individuals to opt for over-the-counter melatonin as 
an alternative to traditional sleep medications. Recent research indicates that 
melatonin not only aids in addressing sleep problems but also enhances muscle 
recovery and performance, thereby improving daytime functioning, particularly 
among athletes. In the United States, the prevalence of melatonin supplement 
usage has risen significantly from 0.08% in 2005-2006 to 0.28% in 2017-2018. 
Individuals with conditions such as heart failure, hypertension, coronary heart 
disease, and cardiovascular risk factors like diabetes and obesity typically 
exhibit lower levels of melatonin in their blood at night. This deficiency 
increases the likelihood of experiencing adverse cardiac events. Studies have 
highlighted melatonin's role not only in regulating sleep but also in 
safeguarding against cardiovascular diseases by influencing various 
cardiovascular functions. In summary, the increasing utilization of melatonin 
underscores its recognized efficacy in mitigating sleep disturbances, with 
emerging evidence suggesting potential benefits for cardiovascular health. As 
ongoing research explores additional therapeutic avenues, the multifaceted 
impact of melatonin emphasizes its significance in promoting overall well-being.

Copyright © 2024 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/CRD.0000000000000822
PMID: 39625306

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors declare no conflict of 
interest.


4. Medicine (Baltimore). 2024 Aug 23;103(34):e39318. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000039318.

Effects of integrative therapy with Du Meridian moxibustion, ear acupuncture, 
and alprazolam on cardiac function and neurotransmitter levels in patients with 
coronary heart disease and insomnia: An observational study.

Huang X(1), Li R(2), Zhang S(1), Liu K(1), Shen L(1), Shi Y(3), Hu Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Pudong New Area Hospital of Chinese Traditional Medicine/Non Drug 
Therapy Center, Shanghai, China.
(2)Rehabilitation Department, Shanghai Pudong New Area Dongming Community Health 
Service Center, Shanghai, China.
(3)Chinese Traditional Medicine Orthopedics and Traumatology Department, 
Shuguang Hospital, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Shanghai, China.

To explore the effects of Du Meridian moxibustion combined with ear acupuncture 
on clinical symptoms and serum neurotransmitters in patients with coronary heart 
disease and insomnia. This study is a retrospective study. From June 2021 to May 
2023, 116 patients with coronary heart disease and insomnia treated at our 
hospital were selected as subjects. They were divided into 2 groups according to 
the treatment. The control group received treatment with alprazolam, while the 
experimental group received Du Meridian moxibustion combined with ear 
acupuncture in addition to alprazolam treatment. The efficacy of the 2 groups 
was compared, and the levels of cardiac function indicators, serum melatonin, 
leptin, and neurotransmitters were measured. The total effectiveness rate in the 
experimental group was 93.10% (with a cure rate of 36.21%, a significant 
improvement rate of 41.38%, and an effective rate of 15.52%), which was 
significantly higher than the 79.31% in the control group (with a cure rate of 
24.14%, a significant improvement rate of 32.76%, and an effective rate of 
22.41%) (P < .05). Both groups exhibited an increase in left ventricular 
ejection fraction, stroke volume, and cardiac output after treatment compared to 
before treatment. Additionally, left ventricular end-systolic diameter decreased 
after treatment compared to before treatment, but the cardiac function was 
compared between the 2 groups after treatment (P > .05). In both groups, serum 
melatonin and serotonin (5-HT) levels increased after treatment compared to 
before treatment, while serum leptin, dopamine, and glutamate levels decreased 
after treatment compared to before treatment. Furthermore, the experimental 
group had higher serum melatonin, 5-HT, and gamma-aminobutyric acid levels 
compared to the control group, and lower serum leptin, dopamine, and glutamate 
levels compared to the control group (P < .05). The serum traditional Chinese 
medicine syndrome score and Pittsburgh sleep quality index score of the 2 groups 
decreased after treatment, and the experimental group was lower than the 
conventional group (P < .05). The combination of Du Meridian acupuncture with 
ear acupuncture in the treatment of insomnia in coronary heart disease can 
regulate the expression of serum melatonin, leptin, and neurotransmitters, 
alleviate symptoms, and improve therapeutic efficacy.

Copyright © 2024 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000039318
PMCID: PMC11346902
PMID: 39183410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


5. Sheng Li Xue Bao. 2024 Feb 25;76(1):128-136.

[Role of mitochondrial dynamics in diabetic cardiomyopathy and regulatory 
mechanisms].

[Article in Chinese]

Yue H(#)(1)(2), De DM(#)(3), Ding MG(3), Fu F(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Northwestern University, Xi'an 710069, China.
(2)Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, Air Force Medical University, 
Xi'an 710032, China.
(3)Department of Geriatric Cardiology, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an 
Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710004, China.
(4)Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, Air Force Medical University, 
Xi'an 710032, China. fufeng048@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Cardiovascular complications are the leading cause of death in diabetic 
patients. Among them, diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a type of specific 
cardiomyopathy excluding myocardial damage caused by hypertension and coronary 
heart disease. It is characterized by abnormal metabolism of cardiomyocytes and 
gradual decline of cardiac function. The clinical manifestations of DCM are 
impaired diastolic function in early stage and impaired systolic function in 
late stage. Eventually it developed into heart failure. Mitochondria are the 
main organelles that provide energy in cardiomyocytes. Mitochondrial dynamics 
refers to the dynamic process of mitochondrial fusion and fission, which is an 
important approach for mitochondrial quality control. Mitochondrial dynamics 
plays a crucial role in maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis and cardiac 
function. The proteins that regulate mitochondrial fission are mainly Drp1 and 
its receptors, Fis1, MFF, MiD49 and MiD51. The protein that performs 
mitochondrial outer membrane fusion is Mfn1/2, and the inner membrane fusion 
protein is Opa1. This paper reviews recent progress on mitochondrial dynamics in 
DCM. The main contents are as follows: mitochondrial dynamics imbalance in both 
type 1 and 2 DCM is manifested as increased fission and inhibited fusion. The 
molecular mechanism of the former is mainly associated with up-regulated Drp1 
and down-regulated Opa1, while the molecular mechanism of the latter is mainly 
associated with up-regulated Drp1 and down-regulated Mfn1/2. Increased 
mitochondrial fission and inhibited fusion can lead to mitochondrial dysfunction 
and promote the development of DCM. The active ingredients of the traditional 
Chinese medicine such as punicalagin, paeonol and endogenous substance melatonin 
can improve mitochondrial function and alleviate the symptoms of DCM by 
inhibiting mitochondrial fission or promoting mitochondrial fusion. This article 
is helpful to further understand the role and mechanism of mitochondrial 
dynamics in DCM, and provide new treatment methods and intervention strategies 
for clinical DCM patients based on mitochondrial dynamics.

PMID: 38444138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Drug: CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE ANHYDROUS & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


=== Drug: PHLORIZIN & Disease: coronary heart disease ===
No results found.


