=== Gene: GZMB ===
1. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2013 Jun;33(6):1418-26. doi: 
10.1161/ATVBAHA.112.301169. Epub 2013 Mar 28.

Gene expression signatures of coronary heart disease.

Joehanes R(1), Ying S, Huan T, Johnson AD, Raghavachari N, Wang R, Liu P, 
Woodhouse KA, Sen SK, Tanriverdi K, Courchesne P, Freedman JE, O'Donnell CJ, 
Levy D, Munson PJ.

Author information:
(1)The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's Framingham Heart Study, 
Framingham, MA 01702, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To identify transcriptomic biomarkers of coronary heart disease (CHD) 
in 188 cases with CHD and 188 age- and sex-matched controls who were 
participants in the Framingham Heart Study.
APPROACH AND RESULTS: A total of 35 genes were differentially expressed in cases 
with CHD versus controls at false discovery rate<0.5, including GZMB, TMEM56, 
and GUK1. Cluster analysis revealed 3 gene clusters associated with CHD, 2 
linked to increased erythrocyte production and a third to reduced natural killer 
and T cell activity in cases with CHD. Exon-level results corroborated and 
extended the gene-level results. Alternative splicing analysis suggested that 
GUK1 and 38 other genes were differentially spliced in cases with CHD versus 
controls. Gene Ontology analysis linked ubiquitination and T-cell-related 
pathways with CHD.
CONCLUSIONS: Two bioinformatically defined groups of genes show consistent 
associations with CHD. Our findings are consistent with the hypotheses that 
hematopoesis is upregulated in CHD, possibly reflecting a compensatory 
mechanism, and that innate immune activity is disrupted in CHD or altered by its 
treatment. Transcriptomic signatures may be useful in identifying pathways 
associated with CHD and point toward novel therapeutic targets for its treatment 
and prevention.

DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.112.301169
PMCID: PMC3684247
PMID: 23539218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures No conflicts of interest, financial 
or otherwise, are declared by the authors.

=== Gene: CD86 ===
1. Immunopharmacol Immunotoxicol. 2022 Apr;44(2):178-185. doi: 
10.1080/08923973.2021.2025245. Epub 2022 Jan 12.

Immunosuppressive effects of dimethyl fumarate on dendritic cell maturation and 
migration: a potent protector for coronary heart disease.

Sun Z(1)(2), Liu X(1), Liu Y(2), Zhao X(3), Zang X(2), Wang F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Shanghai General Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, The Affiliated Changzhou No.2 People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, Changzhou, China.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China.

Dendritic cells (DCs), as a bridge between innate and adaptive immunity, play 
key roles in atherogenesis, particularly in plaque rupture, the underlying 
pathophysiologic cause of myocardial infarction. Targeting DC functions, 
including maturation and migration to atherosclerotic plaques, may be a novel 
therapeutic approach to atherosclerotic disease. Dimethyl fumarate (DMF), an 
agent consisting of a combination of fumaric acid esters, in current study were 
found to be able to suppress DC maturation by reducing the expression of 
costimulatory molecules and MHC class II and by blocking cytokine secretion. In 
addition, DMF efficiently inhibited the migration of activated DCs in vitro and 
in vivo by reducing the expression of chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7). Additionally, 
DMF efficiently inhibited the expression of the costimulatory molecule CD86, as 
well as the chemokine receptor CCR7 and the C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 
(CXCR4), in healthy donor-derived purified DCs that had been stimulated by 
ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patient serum. This study 
points to the potent therapeutic value of DMF for protecting against 
cardiovascular disease by suppressing DC functions.

DOI: 10.1080/08923973.2021.2025245
PMID: 35016591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Zhong Nan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2010 May;35(5):476-82. doi: 
10.3969/j.issn.1672-7347.2010.05.012.

[Dendritic cells and coronary collateral circulation in coronary heart disease].

[Article in Chinese]

Li C(1), Liu W, Yi J, Li Z, Pu X, Yang T, Xie Q, Mo L, Chen X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha 410008, China.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the relationship between the number,phenotype and 
functional status of dendritic cells (DCs) and coronary collateral circulation 
(CCC) in coronary heart disease (CHD).
METHODS: Forty patients with severe coronary stenosis were recruited and divided 
into a CCC formation group (Group A, n=22) and a non-CCC formation group (Group 
B, n=18). Density gradient centrifugation was applied to separate the 
mononuclear cells (MNCs) from coronary artery blood samples, and MNCs were 
cultured and proliferated in vitro. The morphology of DCs was observed under 
converted microscope. The number of harvested cells and DCs was counted by 
hematocytometer. Flow cytometry was applied to investigate the phenotype and the 
mean fluorescence intensity (MFI). Mixed lymphocyte reaction was used to test 
the function of DCs to stimulate the proliferation of T lymphocytes. Stimulation 
index (SI) was calculated and compared.
RESULTS: (1) After in vitro proliferation, DCs were cultured successfully from 
the mononuclear cells from coronary artery blood samples and the morphology of 
DCs was not different in the 2 groups. (2) The number of mononuclear cells (MNC 
no) was (3.95+/-1.41)*10(6), in the CCC group and (2.76+/-0.92)*10(6) in the 
non-CCC group. The MNC number was significantly increased in the CCC group 
(P=0.003). (3) The number of DCs was (1.54+/-0.96)*10(6) in the CCC group, and 
(0.99+/-0.46)*10(6) in the non-CCC group (P=0.033). (4)There was no statistical 
significance in the percent of CD1a+, CD1a+CD80+, CD1a+CD83+, CD1a+CD86+ cells, 
and MFI in the 2 groups (P>0.05). (5) SI was 4.96+/-2.30 in the CCC group, 
whereas 2.66+/-1.04 in the non-CCC group. The SI in the CCC group increased 
significantly(P=0.0003).
CONCLUSION: In CHD patients with severe coronary stenosis, patients with CCC 
formation have higher number of DCs and stronger potential of T lymphocyte 
stimulation.

DOI: 10.3969/j.issn.1672-7347.2010.05.012
PMID: 20543472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2009 Feb;104(2):101-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1742-7843.2008.00340.x. Epub 2008 Dec 16.

Effects of pravastatin on the function of dendritic cells in patients with 
coronary heart disease.

Li X(1), Liu C, Cui J, Dong M, Peng CH, Li QS, Cheng JL, Jiang SL, Tian Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, Harbin, China.

The aim of the study was to investigate the functional profile of dendritic 
cells in patients with coronary heart disease and the effects of pravastatin on 
this. Forty-eight patients with coronary heart disease were divided into three 
groups: 16 treated with pravastatin 10 mg/day, 16 treated with pravastatin 20 
mg/day and 16 not treated with pravastatin. Dendritic cells from 48 patients 
with coronary heart disease (before and 4 weeks after the treatment) and 16 
healthy individuals were derived from peripheral blood. CD86 of dendritic cells 
was assessed by flow cytometry. Immunostimulatory capacity of dendritic cells 
was measured by mixed lymphocyte reaction. The levels of cytokines in the medium 
of mixed lymphocyte reaction were analysed. Blood lipids and high-sensitivity 
C-reactive protein were measured. Compared to normal group, more CD86+ dendritic 
cells were expressed in coronary heart disease and greater immunostimulatory 
capacity of dendritic cells in coronary heart disease was demonstrated. T 
lymphocytes in coronary heart disease in mixed lymphocyte reaction secreted 
higher levels of pro-inflammation cytokines and lower levels of 
anti-inflammation cytokines. CD86 expression significantly correlated with 
C-reactive protein, but did not correlate with low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol. Both dosages of pravastatin markedly inhibited the function of 
dendritic cells and lowered C-reactive protein, which is independent of plasma 
cholesterol lowering. The anti-inflammatory effect of pravastatin showed no 
obvious difference between the two dosage groups. In conclusion, dendritic cells 
were activated in coronary heart disease and dendritic cell-mediated immune 
mechanisms may be involved in the pathogenesis of coronary heart disease. 
Pravastatin can inhibit dendritic cell activation, which is independent of 
plasma cholesterol lowering. Pravastatin in different doses showed no apparent 
differences in the inhibition of dendritic cell functions.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-7843.2008.00340.x
PMID: 19143751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Int J Mol Med. 2008 Jun;21(6):697-704.

Expression profiling of macrophages from subjects with atherosclerosis to 
identify novel susceptibility genes.

Hägg DA(1), Jernås M, Wiklund O, Thelle DS, Fagerberg B, Eriksson P, Hamsten A, 
Olsson B, Carlsson B, Carlsson LM, Svensson PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
University of Göteborg, Göteborg, Sweden. daniel.hagg@medic.gu.se

Although a number of environmental risk factors for atherosclerosis have been 
identified, heredity seems to be a significant independent risk factor. The aim 
of our study was to identify novel susceptibility genes for atherosclerosis. The 
screening process consisted of three steps. First, expression profiles of 
macrophages from subjects with atherosclerosis were compared to macrophages from 
control subjects. Secondly, the subjects were genotyped for promoter region 
polymorphisms in genes with altered gene expression. Thirdly, a population of 
subjects with coronary heart disease and control subjects were genotyped to test 
for an association with identified polymorphisms that affected gene expression. 
Twenty-seven genes were differentially expressed in both macrophages and foam 
cells from subjects with atherosclerosis. Three of these genes, IRS2, CD86 and 
SLC11A1 were selected for further analysis. Foam cells from subjects homozygous 
for the C allele at the -765C-->T SNP located in the promoter region of IRS2 had 
increased gene expression compared to foam cells from subjects with the nonCC 
genotype. Also, macrophages and foam cells from subjects homozygous for allele 2 
at a repeat element in the promoter region of SLC11A1 had increased gene 
expression compared to macrophages and foam cells from subjects with the non22 
genotype. Genotyping of 512 pairs of subjects with coronary heart disease (CHD) 
and matched controls revealed that subjects homozygous for C of the IRS2 SNP had 
an increased risk for CHD; odds ratio 1.43, p=0.010. Immunohistochemical 
staining of human carotid plaques showed that IRS2 expression was localised to 
macrophages and endothelial cells in vivo. Our method provides a reliable 
approach for identifying susceptibility genes for atherosclerosis, and we 
conclude that elevated IRS2 gene expression in macrophages may be associated 
with an increased risk of CHD.

PMID: 18506362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Gene: CD3D ===
No results found.


=== Gene: MMP9 ===
1. PeerJ. 2025 Jul 3;13:e19618. doi: 10.7717/peerj.19618. eCollection 2025.

Serum miR-15a-5p may predict recurrence of atrial fibrillation after catheter 
ablation: a single center retrospective study.

Ruan ZB(1), Peng Q(2), Sun XJ(3), Wang F(1), Zhu L(1).

Author information:
(1)The Affiliated Taizhou People's Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, 
Taizhou, China.
(2)Cardiology, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Taizhou, China.
(3)Dalian Municipal Central Hospital, Dalian, China.

BACKGROUND: There is still a lack of an easily obtainable, sensitive, and 
specific biomarker for predicting the recurrence of atrial fibrillation (AF) 
after radiofrequency catheter ablation (RFCA). In the present study, we aimed to 
investigate the predictive value of serum miR-15a-5p as a biomarker of 
recurrence in AF patients undergoing RFCA.
METHODS: Forty-three consecutive AF patients indicated for RFCA and 20 non-AF 
subjects were enrolled. The levels of serum miR-15a-5p and PICP, PIIINP, MMP-9, 
and sST2 were detected. Then, linear regression analysis, binary logistic 
regression analysis, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis were 
used to investigate the correlation between the expression level of serum 
miR-15a-5p and the degree of myocardial fibrosis and assess the value of serum 
miR-15a-5p for predicting postoperative recurrence of AF.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference in age, CK-MB, uric acid (UA), left 
atrial diameter (LAD), history of coronary heart disease (CAD), and left 
ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) between the AF group and the control group 
(p < 0.05). Compared with the control group, the level of serum miR-15a-5p, 
MMP-9, PICP, PIIINP, and sST2 was higher in the AF group (p < 0.05 or p < 0.01). 
miR-15a-5p had a significant and positive relationship with the level of the 
four serum fibrosis biomarkers (p < 0.05). Compared with paroxysmal AF, 
persistent AF had a higher increase in serum miR-15a-5p expression level 
(p < 0.001). Compared with the non-recurrent, the expression level of serum 
miR-15a-5p in the recurrent patients was significantly increased (p < 0.01). ROC 
analysis showed that the AUC of serum miR-15a-5p for predicting AF recurrence 
was 0.823 (95% CI [0.668-0.979], p < 0.01), and the cutoff value was 1.5224, 
with a sensitivity of 71.4% and specificity of 86.1%.
CONCLUSIONS: The high expression of serum miR-15a-5p in AF patients was related 
to the degree of myocardial fibrosis and the recurrence of AF after RFCA, which 
indicated that serum miR-15a-5p could be used as a serum biomarker for 
predicting AF recurrence after RFCA.

©2025 Ruan et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.19618
PMCID: PMC12229146
PMID: 40620773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing 
interests.


2. Acta Neuropsychiatr. 2025 Mar 21;37:e49. doi: 10.1017/neu.2024.40.

The genetic association between major depressive disorder and coronary heart 
disease.

Shi Y(1), Xu F(2), Wei Y(1), Zeng D(1), He S(1), Huang J(1)(3), Li H(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Schizophrenia Program, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(3)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Psychotic Disorders, Shanghai Mental Health 
Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(4)Shanghai Clinical Research Center for Mental Health, Shanghai, China.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) and coronary heart disease (CHD) can both cause 
significant morbidity and mortality. The association of MDD and CHD has long 
been identified, but the mechanisms still require further investigation. Seven 
mRNA microarray datasets containing samples from patients with MDD and CHD were 
downloaded from Gene Expression Omnibus. Combined matrixes of MDD and CAD were 
constructed for subsequent analysis. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were 
identified. Functional enrichment analyses based on shared DEGs were conducted 
to identify pivotal pathways. A protein-protein network was also applied to 
further investigate the functional interaction. Results showed that 24 
overlapping genes were identified. Enrichment analysis indicated that the shared 
genes are mainly associated with immune function and ribosome biogenesis. The 
functional interactions of shared genes were also demonstrated by PPI network 
analysis. In addition, three hub genes including MMP9, S100A8, and RETN were 
identified. Our results indicate that MDD and CHD have a genetic association. 
Genes relevant to immune function, especially IL-17 signalling pathway may be 
involved in the pathogenesis of MDD and CHD.

DOI: 10.1017/neu.2024.40
PMID: 40114590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Am J Transl Res. 2025 Feb 15;17(2):708-721. doi: 10.62347/NWAZ5584.
eCollection  2025.

Efficacy and safety of Guanxin Danshen dropping pills for the treatment of 
angina pectoris: a meta-analysis.

Yu L(1), Lu S(1), Chen M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine-Cardiovascular, The Second Affiliated 
Hospital of Guangxi Medical University Nanning 530000, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous 
Region, China.
(2)Intensive Care Unit, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi Medical 
University Nanning 530000, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of Guanxin Danshen dropping pills (GDDP) for 
treating angina pectoris (AP) in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD).
METHODS: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating GDDP for AP in CHD 
patients were systematically screened from PubMed, Cochrane Library, Web of 
Science, China Biology Medicine disc (CBM), China National Knowledge 
Infrastructure (CNKI), China Science and Technology Journal Database (VIP), and 
WanFang databases from database inception to March 2023. Bias assessment 
followed the Cochrane Manual 5.1 criteira, and data analysis was performed using 
RevMan 5.3.
RESULTS: Twenty articles were included in the meta-analysis. Compared to 
standard therapy, GDDP exhibited a superior efficacy in treating AP (P < 0.01), 
significantly improved electrocardiogram (ECG) outcomes in AP patients (P < 
0.00001), reduced frequency of AP episodes (P < 0.01), lowered incidence of 
cardiovascular events in AP patients (P = 0.01) and significantly elevated 
hypersensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) and interleukin-18 (IL-18) levels 
(all P < 0.01). However, it did not significantly affect the levels of 
interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), or matrix 
metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) (all P > 0.05). GDDP also reduced total cholesterol 
(TC), triglycerides (TG), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and 
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels (all P < 0.01) as well as 
whole blood viscosity (WBV), plasma viscosity, fibrinogen and hematocrit levels 
(all P < 0.01). Additionally, the combination of GDDP and conventional CHD 
treatment was found to be safe.
CONCLUSION: Combining GDDP with conventional western medicine was more effective 
than either treatment alone in reducing cardiovascular events, alleviating 
angina symptoms, improving inflammation, and optimizing hemorheological 
parameters, without increasing side effects. These findings underscore GDDP's 
use as a complementary treatment for CHD.

AJTR Copyright © 2025.

DOI: 10.62347/NWAZ5584
PMCID: PMC11909518
PMID: 40092109

Conflict of interest statement: None.


4. Pak J Pharm Sci. 2025 Jan-Feb;38(1):77-82.

Efficacy of ticagrelor and clopidogrel in treating unstable angina and their 
effects on serum inflammatory factors.

Qin D(1), Ren Y(2), Zhang N(2), Yang X(2), Chen Z(2), Zhao C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Qiqihar Second Hospital, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, the Third Affiliated Hospital of Qiqihar Medical 
College, China.

To evaluate the comparative efficacy of Ticagrelor and Clopidogrel in treating 
patients with coronary heart disease and unstable angina, as well as their 
effects on serum inflammatory factors, thereby providing a solid foundation for 
future clinical diagnosis and treatment. The frequency of angina attacks in the 
Ticagrelor group was lower than in the Clopidogrel group (P<0.05). The duration 
of angina and shortness of breath were also shorter in the Ticagrelor group 
(P<0.05). The levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), 
interleukin-18 (IL-18), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), 
lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2), myeloperoxidase (MPO), type 1 
tissue plasminogen activator inhibitor (tPAI-1), homocysteine (Hcy), 
endothelin-1 (ET-1), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), platelet-derived 
growth factor (PDGF), brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), soluble CD40 ligand 
(sCD40L), soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1), soluble 
intercellular adhesion molecule (sLCAM-1), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
(LDL-C), total cholesterol (TC), and triglycerides (TG), as well as the 
incidence of MACCE events, were all lower in the Ticagrelor group compared to 
the Clopidogrel group (P<0.05), while high-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
(HDL-C) levels and overall efficacy were higher in the Ticagrelor group 
(P<0.05). Ticagrelor demonstrates superior therapeutic efficacy compared to 
Clopidogrel in patients with coronary heart disease and unstable angina, 
effectively reducing serum inflammatory factor levels.

PMID: 40089933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J Med Biochem. 2025 Jan 24;44(1):46-54. doi: 10.5937/jomb0-51326.

Effects of colchicine adjuvant therapy on disease control, serum NALP3, sICAM-1, 
MMP-9 and MMP-13 in patients with coronary heart disease and acute gout attack.

Bingxun W(1), Yongqing L(1), Wenya H(2), Bing L(1), Pang J(3), Wenwen Y(3), 
Zengcai M(1), Zesheng X(1).

Author information:
(1)Cangzhou Central Hospital, Department of Cardiology, Cangzhou, China.
(2)Hebei Medical University, Cangzhou Central Hospital, Shijiazhuang, China.
(3)Cangzhou Central Hospital, Department of Rheumatology, Cangzhou, China.

BACKGROUND: To investigate the impact of colchicine adjuvant therapy on disease 
control and serum levels of nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like 
receptor (NALP) 3, soluble intercellular adhesion molecule (sICAM)-1, matrix 
metalloproteinase (MMP)-9, and MMP13 in patients with coronary heart disease 
(CHD) complicated by acute gout attacks.
METHODS: Ninety-two patients with CHD and acute gout attacks admitted to our 
hospital from October 2021 to January 2023 were randomly divided into an 
observation group and a control group, with 46 patients in each group. The 
control group received conventional treatment, while the observation group 
received colchicine adjuvant therapy on top of the control group's treatment for 
7 days. Clinical efficacy in both groups was assessed. Before and after 
treatment, cardiac function indicators (left ventricular ejection fraction 
(LVEF), left ventricular end-diastolic diameter (LVEDD), left ventricular 
posterior wall thickness (LVPWT)), vascular endothelial function indicators 
(sICAM-1, endothelin-1 (ET-1), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)), 
inflammatory factors (NALP3, MMP-9, MMP-13) levels, changes in immune cell 
populations (CD3+ lymphocytes, CD3+CD4+ lymphocytes, CD3+CD8+ lymphocytes ratio, 
and CD3+CD4+/CD3+CD8+ ratio) were compared, and the incidence of adverse 
reactions was recorded. Three months after treatment, the occurrence of major 
adverse cardiovascular events was also recorded.
RESULTS: The total effective rate in the observation group was significantly 
higher than that in the control group (93.48% vs 79.07%) (P<0.05). After 
treatment, the levels of NALP3, MMP-9, and MMP-13 in both groups decreased, with 
the observation group being lower than the control group (P<0.05). After 
treatment, LVPWT and LVEDD levels in the observation group were lower than those 
in the control group, and LVEF was higher (P<0.05). After treatment, the levels 
of ET-1 and sICAM-1 in the observation group were lower than those in the 
control group, and VEGF levels were higher (P<0.05). After treatment, the 
proportions of CD3+ lymphocytes, CD3+CD4+ lymphocytes, and CD3+CD4+/CD3+CD8+ 
ratio were significantly higher in the observation group than in the control 
group (P<0.05). There was no significant difference in the incidence of adverse 
reactions between the two groups (P>0.05). The occurrence of major adverse 
cardiovascular events in the observation group was lower than that in the 
control group (2.17% vs 13.04%).
CONCLUSIONS: Colchicine adjuvant therapy improves the efficacy of CHD patients 
with acute gout attacks, helps improve cardiac function and vascular endothelial 
function, reduces serum levels of NALP3, sICAM-1, MMP-9, and MMP-13, enhances 
patient immunity, and controls disease progression.

Publisher: UVOD: Cilj je bio da se istraži uticaj adjuvantne terapije kolhicinom 
na kontrolu bolesti i nivoe u serumu receptora sličnog domenu oligomerizacije 
koji se vezuje za nukleotide (NALP) 3, rastvorljivog intercelularnog adhezionog 
molekula (sICAM)-1, matriks metaloproteinaze (MMP)-9 i MMP-13 kod pacijenata sa 
koronarnom bolešču srca (CHD) komplikovanom akutnim napadima gihta.
METODE: Devedeset i dva pacijenta sa KBS i akutnim napadima gihta primljena u 
našu bolnicu od oktobra 2021. do januara 2023. nasumično su podeljena u 
posmatračku i kontrolnu grupu, sa po 46 pacijenata u svakoj grupi. Kontrolna 
grupa je primila konvencionalni tretman, dok je posmatračka grupa primala 
pomočnu terapiju kolhicinom pored tretmana kontrolne grupe tokom 7 dana. 
Procenjena je klinička efikasnost u obe grupe. Pre i posle tretmana, indikatori 
srčane funkcije (ejekciona frakcija leve komore (LVEF), end-dijastolni prečnik 
leve komore (LVEDD), debljina zadnjeg zida leve komore (LVPVT)), indikatori 
funkcije vaskularnog endotela (sICAM-1, endotelin-1 ( ET-1) i faktor rasta 
vaskularnog endotela (VEGF)), nivoi inflamatornih faktora (NALP3, MMP-9, 
MMP-13), promene u populaciji imunih čelija (CD3+ limfociti, CD3 + CD4+ 
limfociti, odnos CD3+CD8+ limfocita, i CD3 + CD4+/CD3+CD8+ odnos) i zabeležena 
je učestalost neželjenih reakcija. Tri meseca nakon tretmana zabeležena je i 
pojava velikih neželjenih kardiovaskularnih događaja.
REZULTATI: Ukupna efektivna stopa u posmatranoj grupi bila je značajno viša od 
one u kontrolnoj grupi (93,48% naspram 79,07%) (P<0,05). Nakon tretmana, nivoi 
NALP3, MMP-9 i MMP-13 u obe grupe su se smanjili, pri čemu je posmatrana grupa 
bila niža od kontrolne grupe (P<0,05). Nakon tretmana, nivoi LVPVT i LVEDD u 
posmatranoj grupi bili su niži od onih u kontrolnoj grupi, a LVEF viši (P<0,05). 
Nakon tretmana, nivoi ET-1 i sICAM-1 u posmatranoj grupi bili su niži od onih u 
kontrolnoj grupi, a nivoi VEGF-a viši (P<0,05). Nakon tretmana, proporcije CD3+ 
limfocita, CD3 + CD4+ limfocita i odnos CD3 + CD4+/CD3 + CD8+ bili su značajno 
veči u posmatranoj grupi nego u kontrolnoj grupi (P<0,05). Nije bilo značajne 
razlike u incidenci neželjenih reakcija između dve grupe (P>0,05). Pojava 
velikih neželjenih kardiovaskularnih događaja u posmatranoj grupi bila je manja 
nego u kontrolnoj grupi (2,17% prema 13,04%).
ZAKLJUČAK: Adjuvantna terapija kolhicinom poboljšava efikasnost pacijenata sa 
KBS sa akutnim napadima gihta, pomaže u poboljšanju funkcije srca i vaskularnog 
endotela, smanjuje nivoe NALP3, sICAM-1, MMP-9 i MMP-13 u serumu, poboljšava 
imunitet pacijenata i kontroliše progresiju bolesti.

2025 Wang Bingxun, Liu Yongqing, Han Wenya, Li Bing, Jie Pang, Yang Wenwen, Ma 
Zengcai, Xu Zesheng, published by CEON/CEES.

DOI: 10.5937/jomb0-51326
PMCID: PMC11846654
PMID: 39991178

Conflict of interest statement: All the authors declare that they have no 
conflict of interest in this work.Conflict of Interest: The authors stated that 
they have no conflicts of interest regarding the publication of this article.

=== Gene: CD40 ===
1. Pak J Pharm Sci. 2025 Jan-Feb;38(1):77-82.

Efficacy of ticagrelor and clopidogrel in treating unstable angina and their 
effects on serum inflammatory factors.

Qin D(1), Ren Y(2), Zhang N(2), Yang X(2), Chen Z(2), Zhao C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Qiqihar Second Hospital, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, the Third Affiliated Hospital of Qiqihar Medical 
College, China.

To evaluate the comparative efficacy of Ticagrelor and Clopidogrel in treating 
patients with coronary heart disease and unstable angina, as well as their 
effects on serum inflammatory factors, thereby providing a solid foundation for 
future clinical diagnosis and treatment. The frequency of angina attacks in the 
Ticagrelor group was lower than in the Clopidogrel group (P<0.05). The duration 
of angina and shortness of breath were also shorter in the Ticagrelor group 
(P<0.05). The levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), 
interleukin-18 (IL-18), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), 
lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2), myeloperoxidase (MPO), type 1 
tissue plasminogen activator inhibitor (tPAI-1), homocysteine (Hcy), 
endothelin-1 (ET-1), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), platelet-derived 
growth factor (PDGF), brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), soluble CD40 ligand 
(sCD40L), soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1), soluble 
intercellular adhesion molecule (sLCAM-1), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
(LDL-C), total cholesterol (TC), and triglycerides (TG), as well as the 
incidence of MACCE events, were all lower in the Ticagrelor group compared to 
the Clopidogrel group (P<0.05), while high-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
(HDL-C) levels and overall efficacy were higher in the Ticagrelor group 
(P<0.05). Ticagrelor demonstrates superior therapeutic efficacy compared to 
Clopidogrel in patients with coronary heart disease and unstable angina, 
effectively reducing serum inflammatory factor levels.

PMID: 40089933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Redox Biol. 2025 Mar;80:103520. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2025.103520. Epub 2025
Jan  29.

CD40-TRAF6 inhibition suppresses cardiovascular inflammation, oxidative stress 
and functional complications in a mouse model of arterial hypertension.

Strohm L(1), Ubbens H(1), Mihalikova D(1), Czarnowski A(1), Stamm P(1), Molitor 
M(2), Finger S(3), Oelze M(1), Atzler D(4), Wenzel P(2), Lurz P(1), Münzel T(2), 
Weber C(5), Lutgens E(6), Daiber A(7), Daub S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Cardiology I, University Medical Center of the 
Johannes Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Cardiology I, University Medical Center of the 
Johannes Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany; Center for Thrombosis and 
Hemostasis, University Medical Center of the Johannes Gutenberg-University, 
Mainz, Germany; German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partnersite 
Rhine-Main, Mainz, Germany.
(3)Center for Thrombosis and Hemostasis, University Medical Center of the 
Johannes Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany.
(4)Institute for Cardiovascular Prevention, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität 
München, Munich, Germany; DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), 
Partner Site Munich Heart Alliance, Germany; Walter Straub Institute of 
Pharmacology and Toxicology, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, Munich, Germany.
(5)Institute for Cardiovascular Prevention, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität 
München, Munich, Germany; DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), 
Partner Site Munich Heart Alliance, Germany; Munich Cluster for Systems 
Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(6)DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), Partner Site Munich Heart 
Alliance, Germany; Mayo Clinic, Dept Cardiovascular Medicine and Immunology, 
Rochester, MN, USA.
(7)Department of Cardiology, Cardiology I, University Medical Center of the 
Johannes Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany; Center for Thrombosis and 
Hemostasis, University Medical Center of the Johannes Gutenberg-University, 
Mainz, Germany; German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partnersite 
Rhine-Main, Mainz, Germany. Electronic address: daiber@uni-mainz.de.

Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of disease burden and death 
worldwide and is fueled by vascular inflammation. CD40L-CD40-TRAF signaling is 
involved in the progression of atherosclerosis and drives the development of 
coronary heart disease (CHD). The present study investigates whether the 
CD40L-CD40-TRAF6 signaling pathway with focus on immune cells and adipocytes 
could be a therapeutic target in arterial hypertension. Arterial hypertension 
was induced in WT (C57BL6/J) and cell-specific CD40(L) knockout mice (AdipoqCre 
x CD40 fl/fl, CD4Cre x CD40 fl/fl, CD19Cre x CD40 fl/fl, and GP1baCre x CD40L 
fl/fl) via angiotensin (AT-II) infusion (1 mg/kg/d) for seven days. Hypertensive 
WT mice were also treated with a CD40-TRAF6 inhibitor (2.5 mg/kg/d, for 7d). The 
TRAF6 inhibitor treatment normalized endothelial dysfunction and reduced blood 
pressure in hypertensive wild type animals. Reactive oxygen species production 
was decreased by TRAF6 inhibition in blood, aorta, heart, kidney, and 
perivascular fat tissue. Additionally, FACS analysis revealed that TRAF6 
inhibition prevents immune cell migration into the aortic vessel wall observed 
by reduced CD45+ leukocyte, Ly6G+/Ly6C+ neutrophil, and Ly6Chigh inflammatory 
monocyte content. The hypertensive cell type-specific CD40(L) knockout animals 
showed only a minor effect on endothelial function, blood pressure, and 
oxidative stress. Therefore, we conclude that targeting CD40 directly on 
adipocytes, B-cells, T-cells, or CD40L on platelets is not a promising target to 
prevent hypertension complications. In summary, TRAF6 inhibition but not 
adipocyte, B-cell, or T-cell-specific CD40 or platelet-specific CD40L deficiency 
reduces pathophysiological vascular inflammation in hypertensive mice, 
suggesting TRAF6 inhibition as a potential therapeutic target in hypertensive 
patients.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2025.103520
PMCID: PMC11840497
PMID: 39899926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests:SD was supported by a vascular 
biology research grant on “CD40L and inflammation in hypertension” of the 
Else-Kröner-Fresenius Foundation (2019_A110) and a research stipend from the 
foundation Heart of Mainz. LS and HU hold PhD stipends of the TransMed PhD 
Program financed by the Else-Kröner-Fresenius Foundation (2019_A110). TM is PI, 
and AD Scientist of the DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), 
Partner Site Rhine-Main, Mainz, Germany. This work was supported by German 
Research Foundation (DFG) grant of the Major Research Instrumentation Programme 
(DFG INST 371/47-1 FUGG). C.W. is a Van Der Laar professor of atherosclerosis.


3. Basic Res Cardiol. 2024 Aug;119(4):1-18. doi: 10.1007/s00395-024-01045-1. Epub
 2024 Mar 30.

Role of inflammatory signaling pathways involving the CD40-CD40L-TRAF cascade in 
diabetes and hypertension-insights from animal and human studies.

Strohm L(#)(1), Daiber A(#)(2)(3)(4), Ubbens H(1), Krishnankutty R(5), Oelze 
M(1), Kuntic M(1), Hahad O(1)(6), Klein V(1), Hoefer IE(7), von Kriegsheim A(5), 
Kleinert H(8), Atzler D(9)(10)(11), Lurz P(1)(6), Weber C(9)(10)(12)(13), Wild 
PS(14)(15)(16)(17), Münzel T(1)(6), Knosalla C(18)(19)(20), Lutgens 
E(9)(10)(21), Daub S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Cardiology I, University Medical Center of the 
Johannes Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Cardiology I, University Medical Center of the 
Johannes Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany. daiber@uni-mainz.de.
(3)German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partnersite Rhine-Main, 
Mainz, Germany. daiber@uni-mainz.de.
(4)Universitätsmedizin der Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Zentrum für 
Kardiologie 1, Labor für Molekulare Kardiologie, Geb. 605, Raum 3.262, 
Langenbeckstr. 1, 55131, Mainz, Germany. daiber@uni-mainz.de.
(5)Institute of Genetics and Cancer, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(6)German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partnersite Rhine-Main, 
Mainz, Germany.
(7)Central Diagnostic Laboratory, UMC Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(8)Department of Pharmacology, University Medical Center of the Johannes 
Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany.
(9)Institute for Cardiovascular Prevention (IPEK), Ludwig-Maximilians 
Universität, Munich, Germany.
(10)German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partner Site Munich Heart 
Alliance, Munich, Germany.
(11)Walther Straub Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, LMU Munich, Munich, 
Germany.
(12)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(13)Department of Biochemistry, Cardiovascular Research Institute Maastricht 
(CARIM), Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(14)Preventive Cardiology and Preventive Medicine, Department of Cardiology, 
University Medical Mainz, Johannes Gutenberg-University Mainz, Mainz, Germany.
(15)Clinical Epidemiology and Systems Medicine, Center for Thrombosis and 
Hemostasis, University Medical Center Mainz, Johannes Gutenberg University 
Mainz, Mainz, Germany.
(16)German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partnersite Rhine-Main, 
University Medical Center Mainz, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Mainz, 
Germany.
(17)Systems Medicine, Institute of Molecular Biology (IMB), Mainz, Germany.
(18)Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery, Deutsches Herzzentrum der 
Charité, Berlin, Germany.
(19)Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität 
Berlin and Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(20)German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partner Site Berlin, 
Berlin, Germany.
(21)Department Cardiovascular Medicine and Immunology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
MN, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

CD40L-CD40-TRAF signaling plays a role in atherosclerosis progression and 
affects the pathogenesis of coronary heart disease (CHD). We tested the 
hypothesis that CD40L-CD40-TRAF signaling is a potential therapeutic target in 
hyperlipidemia, diabetes, and hypertension. In mouse models of hyperlipidemia 
plus diabetes (db/db mice) or hypertension (1 mg/kg/d angiotensin-II for 
7 days), TRAF6 inhibitor treatment (2.5 mg/kg/d for 7 or 14 days) normalized 
markers of oxidative stress and inflammation. As diabetes and hypertension are 
important comorbidities aggravating CHD, we explored whether the CD40L-CD40-TRAF 
signaling cascade and their associated inflammatory pathways are expressed in 
CHD patients suffering from comorbidities. Therefore, we analyzed vascular 
bypass material (aorta or internal mammary artery) and plasma from patients with 
CHD with diabetes and/or hypertension. Our Olink targeted plasma proteomic 
analysis using the IMMUNO-ONCOLOGY panel revealed a pattern of step-wise 
increase for 13/92 markers of low-grade inflammation with significant changes. 
CD40L or CD40 significantly correlated with 38 or 56 other inflammatory targets. 
In addition, specific gene clusters that correlate with the comorbidities were 
identified in isolated aortic mRNA of CHD patients through RNA-sequencing. These 
signaling clusters comprised CD40L-CD40-TRAF, immune system, hemostasis, muscle 
contraction, metabolism of lipids, developmental biology, and apoptosis. 
Finally, immunological analysis revealed key markers correlated with 
comorbidities in CHD patients, such as CD40L, NOX2, CD68, and 3-nitrotyrosine. 
These data indicate that comorbidities increase inflammatory pathways in CHD, 
and targeting these pathways will be beneficial in reducing cardiovascular 
events in CHD patients with comorbidities.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00395-024-01045-1
PMCID: PMC11319409
PMID: 38554187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare no conflict of interest for 
this contribution.


4. Cells. 2023 Jul 25;12(15):1926. doi: 10.3390/cells12151926.

Ectodomain Shedding by ADAM17 Increases the Release of Soluble CD40 from Human 
Endothelial Cells under Pro-Inflammatory Conditions.

Klersy A(1), Meyer S(2), Leuschner F(2), Kessler T(3)(4), Hecker M(1), Wagner 
AH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Physiology, Heidelberg University, 69120 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Angiology and Pneumology, Heidelberg University, 
69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)Department of Cardiology, German Heart Centre Munich, Technical University of 
Munich, 80636 Munich, Germany.
(4)DZHK (German Centre for Cardiovascular Research), Partner Site Munich Heart 
Alliance, 80636 Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Homozygosity for the C allele of the -1T>C single nucleotide 
polymorphism (SNP) of the CD40 gene (rs1883832) is associated with 
susceptibility to coronary heart disease (CHD), enhanced CD40 expression, and 
shedding. The disintegrin metalloprotease ADAM17 can cleave various cell surface 
proteins. This study investigates an association between ADAM17-mediated CD40 
shedding and inflammation in CC genotype human endothelial cells.
METHODS: Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) carrying the CC genotype 
were stimulated with soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L) or tumor necrosis factor-α 
(TNFα). Messenger RNA and protein expression were determined with standard 
methods. Levels of high sensitive c-reactive protein (hs-CRP), interleukin-6 
(IL-6), and sCD40 in plasma samples from patients with CHD were assessed using 
ELISA.
RESULTS: ADAM17 surface abundance was elevated following stimulation with CD40L 
and TNFα just as its regulator iRhom2. Inhibition of ADAM17 prevented 
TNFα-induced sCD40 and soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 release into 
the conditioned medium and reinforced CD40 surface abundance. Secondary to 
inhibition of ADAM17, stimulation with CD40L or TNFα upregulated monocyte 
chemoattractant protein-1 mRNA and protein. Levels of sCD40 and the inflammatory 
biomarkers hs-CRP and IL-6 were positively correlated in the plasma of patients 
with CHD.
CONCLUSIONS: We provide a mechanism by which membrane-bound CD40 is shed from 
the endothelial cell surface by ADAM17, boosting sCD40 formation and limiting 
downstream CD40 signaling. Soluble CD40 may represent a robust biomarker for 
CHD, especially in conjunction with homozygosity for the C allele of the -1T>C 
SNP of the CD40 gene.

DOI: 10.3390/cells12151926
PMCID: PMC10417149
PMID: 37566005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


5. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Biomed Res Int. 2022 Jun 24;2022:6818888. doi: 10.1155/2022/6818888. eCollection 
2022.

Analysis of Risk Factors of Coronary Heart Disease and Its Correlation with 
Inflammatory Factors in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus.

Wang Z(1), Zhao H(1), Zhou Q(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Wuhan No.1 Hospital, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China 
430022.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, Huangshi Central Hospital, Huangshi, Hubei 
Province, China 435000.

Retraction in
    Biomed Res Int. 2023 Dec 29;2023:9817271. doi: 10.1155/2023/9817271.

In this paper, we propose a new method to analyze the risk factors of coronary 
heart disease (CHD) and their correlation with inflammatory factors in patients 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). To verify and implement this idea, we have 
selected a total of 165 patients with T2DM treated in our hospital from March 
2019 to October 2021 that were divided into CHD group (n = 72) and non-CHD group 
(n = 93) according to the results of coronary angiography. Patients with CHD 
were divided into three groups according to SYNTAX score: low-risk group, 
medium-risk group, and high-risk group. The clinical data of all patients were 
collected. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to screen the risk 
factors of CHD in patients with T2DM. The related inflammatory factors such as 
C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and water-soluble CD40 ligand 
(sCD40L) were detected in all patients. Pearson's linear correlation analysis 
was used to analyze the correlation between the expression levels of CRP, IL-6, 
and sCD40L and CHD in patients with T2DM. The receiver working curve (ROC) was 
used to evaluate the efficacy of IL-6, CRP, and sCD40L in predicting high risk 
of CHD in patients with T2DM. Multivariate analysis showed that age and course 
of T2DM, FFA, UA, and Hcy were risk factors for CHD in patients with T2DM. The 
serum levels of IL-6, CRP, and sCD40L in patients with CHD were significantly 
higher than those in patients without CHD. According to SYNTAX score, 72 
patients with CHD were divided into low-risk group (n = 36), medium-risk group 
(n = 26), and high-risk group (n = 10). Compared with the low-risk group, the 
expression levels of serum IL-6 CRP and sCD40L in the middle-risk group and 
high-risk group were significantly higher than those in the low-risk group. The 
expression levels of IL-6 CRP and sCD40L in the high-risk group were also 
significantly higher than those in the medium-risk group. There is a positive 
correlation between syntactic score and IL-6 expression in patients with T2DM 
complicated with coronary heart disease (r = 0.778, P < 0.001), with the 
expression of CRP (r = 0.756, P < 0.001) and with the expression of sCD40L (r = 
0.748, P < 0.001). Advanced age, long course of T2DM, elevated levels of FFA, 
UA, and Hcy are all risk factors of CHD in patients with type 2 diabetes. T2DM 
patients with the above risk factors should be vigilant and pay attention to 
monitoring the related indexes of coronary heart disease to avoid the occurrence 
of serious cardiovascular disease. CRP, IL-6, and sCD40L are involved in the 
progression of CHD in patients with T2DM. The more severe CHD is, the higher the 
expression of IL-6, CRP, and sCD40L in serum.

Copyright © 2022 Zhigang Wang et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2022/6818888
PMCID: PMC9249516
PMID: 35782064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.

=== Gene: S100A9 ===
1. Biosci Rep. 2023 Jul 26;43(7):BSR20222552. doi: 10.1042/BSR20222552.

Identification of biomarkers and immune infiltration in acute myocardial 
infarction and heart failure by integrated analysis.

Liu W(#)(1), Li Y(#)(2), Zhang Y(3), Li S(4), Chen Y(5), Han B(1), Lu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Xuzhou Central Hospital, Xuzhou Institute of 
Cardiovascular Disease, Xuzhou Clinical School of Nanjing Medical University, 
No. 199 Jiefang South Road, Xuzhou 221009, PR China.
(2)Department of Ultrasonography, Xuzhou Central Hospital, Xuzhou Clinical 
School of Nanjing Medical University, No. 199 Jiefang South Road, Xuzhou 221009, 
PR China.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, Xuzhou Central Hospital, Xuzhou Clinical School 
of Nanjing Medical University, No. 199 Jiefang South Road, Xuzhou 221009, PR 
China.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Shanghai Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, 
Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Cardiology, The Affiliated Suzhou Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Suzhou Municipal Hospital, Gusu School, Nanjing Medical University, 
Suzhou, China.
(#)Contributed equally

The mortality of heart failure after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) remains 
high. The aim of the present study was to analyze hub genes and immune 
infiltration in patients with AMI and heart failure (HF). The study utilized 
five publicly available gene expression datasets from peripheral blood in 
patients with AMI who either developed or did not develop HF. The unbiased 
patterns of 24 immune cell were estimated by xCell algorithm. Single-cell RNA 
sequencing data were used to examine the immune cell infiltration in heart 
failure patients. Hub genes were validated by quantitative reverse 
transcription-PCR (RT-qPCR). In comparison with the coronary heart disease (CHD) 
group, immune infiltration analysis of AMI patients showed that macrophages M1, 
macrophages, monocytes, natural killer (NK) cells, and NKT cells were the five 
most highly activated cell types. Five common immune-related genes (S100A12, 
AQP9, CSF3R, S100A9, and CD14) were identified as hub genes associated with AMI. 
Using RT-qPCR, we confirmed FOS, DUSP1, CXCL8, and NFKBIA as the potential 
biomarkers to identify AMI patients at risk of HF. The study identified several 
transcripts that differentiate between AMI and CHD, and between HF and non-HF 
patients. These findings could improve our understanding of the immune response 
in AMI and HF, and allow for early identification of AMI patients at risk of HF.

© 2023 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/BSR20222552
PMCID: PMC10329185
PMID: 37334672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no competing 
interests associated with the manuscript.


2. Cells. 2022 Jun 13;11(12):1911. doi: 10.3390/cells11121911.

Integrated Analysis Reveals S100a8/a9 Regulates Autophagy and Apoptosis through 
the MAPK and PI3K-AKT Signaling Pathway in the Early Stage of Myocardial 
Infarction.

Yi W(1), Zhu R(1), Hou X(1), Wu F(1), Feng R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Toxicology, School of Pharmacy, China Medical 
University, No. 77 Puhe Road, Shenyang North New Area, Shenyang 110122, China.

Myocardial infarction (MI), a type of coronary heart disease, has had a 
significantly increased incidence in recent years. The balance of cardiomyocyte 
apoptosis and autophagy after MI is one of the main determinants of patient 
prognosis. Both affect myocardial fibrosis and ventricular remodeling and 
regulate cell survival. However, there are few studies on the regulation 
mechanism of cardiomyocyte autophagy and apoptosis in the early stage after MI. 
In this study, based on analyzing the scRNA-seq and mRNA-seq data of mice in the 
early stage of MI, we found that the expression of S100a8 and S100a9 increased 
first and then decreased in the early stage of MI, and their expression level 
changed with the number of neutrophils. Further, through the functional 
enrichment analysis of the differentially expressed genes, we found that S100a8 
and S100a9 were simultaneously associated with autophagy and apoptosis and could 
regulate autophagy and apoptosis of cardiomyocytes through MAPK or PI3K-AKT 
signaling pathways. This study provides valuable insights for clarifying the 
pathogenesis of early stage MI and improving its early treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/cells11121911
PMCID: PMC9221389
PMID: 35741040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


3. Mol Genet Genomic Med. 2020 Oct;8(10):e1415. doi: 10.1002/mgg3.1415. Epub 2020
 Aug 2.

A module of multifactor-mediated dysfunction guides the molecular typing of 
coronary heart disease.

Li Y(1)(2), Lin M(1)(2), Wang K(3), Zhan Y(4), Gu W(1)(2), Gao G(1)(2), Huang 
Y(1)(2), Chen Y(1)(2), Huang T(1)(2), Wang J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Laboratory of Cardiac Electrophysiology and Arrhythmia in Guangdong Province, 
Guangdong, China.
(3)Division of Vascular Surgery, the First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, China.

BACKGROUND: Coronary atherosclerotic heart disease (CHD) is the most common 
cardiovascular disease and has become a leading cause of death globally. Various 
molecular typing methods are available for the diagnosis and treatment of 
tumors. However, molecular typing results are not routinely used for CHD.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Aiming to uncover the underlying molecular features of 
different types of CHD, we screened the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) 
associated with CHD based on the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) data and expanded 
those with the NCBI-gene and OMIM databases to finally obtain 2021 DEGs. The 
weighted gene co-expression analysis (WGCNA) was performed on the candidate 
genes, and six distinctive WGCNA modules were identified, two of which were 
associated with CHD. Moreover, DEGs were mined as key genes for co-expression 
based on the module network relationship. Furthermore, the differentially 
expressed miRNAs in CHD and interactions in the database were mined in the GEO 
data set to build a multifactor regulatory network of key genes for 
co-expression. Based on the network, the CHD samples were further classified 
into five clusters and we defined FTH1, HCAR3, RGS2, S100A9, and TYROBP as the 
top genes of the five subgroups. Finally, the mRNA levels of FTH1, S100A9, and 
TYROBP were found to be significantly increased, while the expression of HCAR3 
was decreased in the blood of CHD patients. We did not detect measurable levels 
of RGS2.
CONCLUSION: The screened core clusters of genes may be a target for the 
diagnosis and treatment of CHD as a molecular typing module.

© 2020 The Authors. Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/mgg3.1415
PMCID: PMC7549572
PMID: 32743916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interests.


4. Clin Chim Acta. 2020 Mar;502:293-304. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2019.11.019. Epub
2019  Nov 30.

S100 proteins in atherosclerosis.

Xiao X(1), Yang C(2), Qu SL(2), Shao YD(3), Zhou CY(3), Chao R(2), Huang L(4), 
Zhang C(5).

Author information:
(1)Research Lab for Clinical & Translational Medicine, Hengyang Medical College, 
University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan 421001, People's Republic of China; 
Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, Key Lab for Arteriosclerology of Hunan 
Province, Hengyang Medical College, University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan 
421001, People's Republic of China; Departments of Clinical Medicine, Hengyang 
Medical College, University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan 421001, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, Key Lab for Arteriosclerology of Hunan 
Province, Hengyang Medical College, University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan 
421001, People's Republic of China.
(3)Research Lab for Clinical & Translational Medicine, Hengyang Medical College, 
University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan 421001, People's Republic of China; 
Departments of Stomatology, Hengyang Medical College, University of South China, 
Hengyang, Hunan 421001, People's Republic of China.
(4)Research Lab for Clinical & Translational Medicine, Hengyang Medical College, 
University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan 421001, People's Republic of China. 
Electronic address: huangliang0530@hotmail.com.
(5)Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, Key Lab for Arteriosclerology of Hunan 
Province, Hengyang Medical College, University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan 
421001, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
zhangchi9966@hotmail.com.

Atherosclerosis is an arterial disease associated with dyslipidemia, abnormal 
arterial calcification and oxidative stress. It has been shown that a continued 
chronic inflammatory state of the arterial wall contributes to the development 
of atherosclerosis. The inflammatory stimulation, recruitment of inflammatory 
cells and production of pro-inflammatory cytokines enhances vascular 
inflammation. Some members of the S100 proteins family bind with their 
receptors, such as advanced glycation end products (RAGE), scavenger receptors 
(CD36) and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR-4), contributing to the cellular response 
in atherosclerotic progression. This review summarizes the roles of S100 
proteins (S100A8, S100A9 and S100A12) in the vascular inflammation, vascular 
calcification and vascular oxidative stress. S100 proteins are released from 
monocytes, smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells in response to cellular 
stress stimuli, and then the binding of S100 proteins to RAGE activate 
downstream signaling such as transcription factor kappa B (NF-κB) translocation 
and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, which act as a positive feedback 
loop for inducing pro-inflammatory phenotype in a wide variety of cell types 
including endothelial cells, vascular smooth muscle cells and leukocytes. Thus, 
it suggests that the inhibition of S100 proteins-mediated RAGE and TLR4 
activation appears to be a promising approach to treat atherosclerosis. In 
addition, recent study showed that serum S100A12 can predict future 
cardiovascular events, highlighting that S100A12 is likely to be a potential 
biomarker of therapeutic efficacy and disease progression in coronary heart 
disease. Future studies of patients with coronary heart disease may provide more 
evidences supporting that S100 proteins is promising drug target in the 
prevention and therapy of atherosclerosis.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2019.11.019
PMID: 31794767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All authors 
declare that no conflict of interest exists.

=== Gene: STAT1 ===
1. Atherosclerosis. 2024 May;392:117507. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2024.117507. Epub 2024 Mar 11.

Gene expression profiling in elderly patients with familial hypercholesterolemia 
with and without coronary heart disease.

Melnes T(1), Bogsrud MP(2), Christensen JJ(1), Rundblad A(1), Narverud I(3), 
Retterstøl K(4), Aukrust P(5), Halvorsen B(5), Ulven SM(1), Holven KB(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University of 
Oslo, Norway.
(2)Unit for Cardiac and Cardiovascular Genetics, Department of Medical Genetics, 
Oslo University Hospital Ullevål, Norway; Norwegian National Advisory Unit on 
Familial Hypercholesterolemia, Department of Endocrinology, Morbid Obesity and 
Preventive Medicine, Oslo University Hospital Aker, Norway.
(3)Department of Nutrition, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University of 
Oslo, Norway; Norwegian National Advisory Unit on Familial Hypercholesterolemia, 
Department of Endocrinology, Morbid Obesity and Preventive Medicine, Oslo 
University Hospital Aker, Norway.
(4)Department of Nutrition, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University of 
Oslo, Norway; The Lipid Clinic, Department of Endocrinology, Morbid Obesity and 
Preventive Medicine, Oslo University Hospital Aker, Norway.
(5)Research Institute for Internal Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Norway; 
Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, Norway.
(6)Department of Nutrition, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University of 
Oslo, Norway; Norwegian National Advisory Unit on Familial Hypercholesterolemia, 
Department of Endocrinology, Morbid Obesity and Preventive Medicine, Oslo 
University Hospital Aker, Norway. Electronic address: 
kirsten.holven@medisin.uio.no.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Elderly familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) patients are at 
high risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) due to high cholesterol burden and 
late onset of effective cholesterol-lowering therapies. A subset of these 
individuals remains free from any CHD event, indicating the potential presence 
of protective factors. Identifying possible cardioprotective gene expression 
profiles could contribute to our understanding of CHD prevention and future 
preventive treatment. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate gene expression 
profiles in elderly event-free FH patients.
METHODS: Expression of 773 genes was analysed using the Nanostring Metabolic 
Pathways Panel, in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from FH patients 
≥65 years without CHD (FH event-free, n = 44) and with CHD (FH CHD, n = 39), and 
from healthy controls ≥70 years (n = 39).
RESULTS: None of the genes were differentially expressed between FH patients 
with and without CHD after adjusting for multiple testing. However, at nominal 
p < 0.05, we found 36 (5%) differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the two 
FH groups, mainly related to lipid metabolism (e.g. higher expression of ABCA1 
and ABCG1 in FH event-free) and immune responses (e.g. lower expression of STAT1 
and STAT3 in FH event-free). When comparing FH patients to controls, the 
event-free group had fewer DEGs than the CHD group; 147 (19%) and 219 (28%) 
DEGs, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Elderly event-free FH patients displayed a different PBMC gene 
expression profile compared to FH patients with CHD. Differences in gene 
expression compared to healthy controls were more pronounced in the CHD group, 
indicating a less atherogenic gene expression profile in event-free individuals. 
Overall, identification of cardioprotective factors could lead to future 
therapeutic targets.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2024.117507
PMID: 38663317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: MPB has received research grants 
and/or personal fees from Amgen and Sanofi, none of which are related to the 
content of this manuscript. JJC has received research grants and/or personal 
fees from Mills DA and Amgen, none of which are related to the content of this 
manuscript. AR has received personal fees from Rimfrost AS that are not related 
to the content of this manuscript. KR has received research grants and/or 
personal fees from Akcea, Amgen, Mills, Sanofi and Sunnovion, none of which are 
related to the content of this manuscript. KBH has received research grants 
and/or personal fees from Sanofi that are related to the content of this 
manuscript. The other authors have no financial relationships relevant to 
disclose.


2. IUBMB Life. 2021 Jan;73(1):238-251. doi: 10.1002/iub.2423. Epub 2020 Dec 17.

Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 participates in the process of atherosclerosis by 
modulating microRNA-139-5p methylation and signal transducer and activator of 
transcription 1 expression.

Zheng X(1), Zhao X(1), Han Z(1), Chen K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, China.

Atherosclerosis (AS) is the main cause of coronary heart disease, in which 
enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) has been implied to participate in this 
process. Thus, this work proposed to explore the effect of EZH2 on AS from 
microRNA-139-5p (miR-139-5p)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 
(STAT1) axis. EZH2, miR-139-5p, and STAT1 expression in arterial tissues of AS 
patients were detected. Human arterial smooth muscle cells (HASMCs) induced with 
oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) and the mice fed with high fat diet 
were treated with silenced EZH2 or upregulated miR-139-5p to explore their roles 
in proliferation and apoptosis of HASMCs, together with inflammation response 
and oxidative stress of mice. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiment was 
applied to verify the regulatory effect of EZH2 on miR-139-5p through 
methylation of H3K27me3. The targeting relationship between miR-139-5p and STAT1 
was verified by online website and luciferase activity assay. Reduced miR-139-5p 
and overexpressed EHZ2 and STAT1 were found in AS. Silenced EZH2 or elevated 
miR-139-5p decreased the production of cholesterol and inhibited inflammation 
reaction in serum of mice with AS. Silenced EZH2 or elevated miR-139-5p 
facilitated proliferation and restrained apoptosis of ox-LDL-treated HASMCs, and 
restrained oxidative stress and cell apoptosis in arterial tissues of AS mice. 
EZH2 regulated miR-139-5p through H3K27me3, and miR-139-5p targeted STAT1. 
miR-139-5p silencing antagonized the effects of EZH2 down-regulation on AS. This 
study manifests that down-regulated EZH2 or elevated miR-139-5p inhibits 
ox-LDL-induced HASMCs apoptosis, plaque formation, and inflammatory response in 
AS mice, which may be related to down-regulated STAT1.

© 2020 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/iub.2423
PMID: 33331071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 14;11(12):e0167676. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0167676. 
eCollection 2016.

Identification of the Functional Variant(s) that Explain the Low-Density 
Lipoprotein Receptor (LDLR) GWAS SNP rs6511720 Association with Lower LDL-C and 
Risk of CHD.

Fairoozy RH(1), White J(2), Palmen J(1), Kalea AZ(1), Humphries SE(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cardiovascular Genetics, BHF Laboratories, Institute of 
Cardiovascular Science, University College London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)University College London Genetics Institute, Department of Genetics, 
Environment and Evolution, London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: The Low-Density Lipoprotein Receptor (LDLR) SNP rs6511720 (G>T), 
located in intron-1 of the gene, has been identified in genome-wide association 
studies (GWAS) as being associated with lower plasma levels of LDL-C and a lower 
risk of coronary heart disease (CHD). Whether or not rs6511720 is itself 
functional or a marker for a functional variant elsewhere in the gene is not 
known.
METHODS: The association of LDLR SNP rs6511720 with incidence of CHD and levels 
of LDL-C was determined by reference to CARDIoGRAM, C4D and Global lipids 
genetics consortium (GLGC) data. SNP annotation databases were used to identify 
possible SNP function and prioritization. Luciferase reporter assays in the 
liver cell line Huh7 were used to measure the effect of variant genotype on gene 
expression. Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assays (EMSAs) were used to identify 
the Transcription Factors (TFs) involved in gene expression regulation.
RESULTS: The phenotype-genotype analysis showed that the rs6511720 minor allele 
is associated with lower level of LDL-C [beta = -0.2209, p = 3.85 x10-262], and 
lower risk of CHD [log (OR) = 0.1155, p = 1.04 x10-7]. Rs6511720 is in complete 
linkage. Rs6511720 is in complete linkage disequilibrium (LD) with three 
intron-1 SNPs (rs141787760, rs60173709, rs57217136). Luciferase reporter assays 
in Huh7 cells showed that the rare alleles of both rs6511720 and rs57217136 
caused a significant increase in LDLR expression compared to the common alleles 
(+29% and +24%, respectively). Multiplex Competitor-EMSAs (MC-EMSA) identified 
that the transcription factor serum response element (SRE) binds to rs6511720, 
while retinoic acid receptor (RAR) and signal transducer and activator of 
transcription 1 (STAT1) bind to rs57217136.
CONCLUSION: Both LDLR rs6511720 and rs57217136 are functional variants. Both 
these minor alleles create enhancer-binding protein sites for TFs and may 
contribute to increased LDLR expression, which is consequently associated with 
reduced LDL-C levels and 12% lower CHD risk.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0167676
PMCID: PMC5156384
PMID: 27973560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


4. Acta Pharmacol Sin. 2014 Jun;35(6):770-8. doi: 10.1038/aps.2014.16. Epub 2014 
Apr 21.

Cyclovirobuxinum D suppresses lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammatory responses 
in murine macrophages in vitro by blocking JAK-STAT signaling pathway.

Guo D(1), Li JR(2), Wang Y(3), Lei LS(2), Yu CL(2), Chen NN(2).

Author information:
(1)Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, China.
(2)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 
510515, China.
(3)China National Center for Biotechnology Development, Beijing 100039, China.

AIM: Cyclovirobuxinum D (CVB-D), an alkaloid isolated from the Chinese medicinal 
plant Buxus microphylla, has been found to be effective to treat cardiac 
insufficiency, arrhythmias and coronary heart disease. In the present study, we 
investigated the effects of CVB-D on the inflammatory responses in 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated murine macrophages in vitro and the 
underlying mechanisms.
METHODS: Murine macrophage cell line RAW264.7 cells were incubated in the 
presence of LPS (0.1 μg/mL) for 24 h. The cell viability was measured using MTT 
assay. The release of NO and cytokines were detected using the Griess test and 
ELISA, respectively. The mRNA and protein levels were determined using RT-PCR 
and Western blot, respectively. Reporter gene assays were used to analyze the 
transcriptional activity of NF-κB.
RESULTS: Treatment of RAW264.7 cells with CVB-D (25-300 μmol/L) did not affect 
the cell viability. Pretreatment with CVB-D (50, 100 and 200 μmol/L) 
concentration-dependently decreased NO release and iNOS expression in 
LPS-treated RAW264.7 cells (its IC50 value in inhibition of NO production was 
144 μmol/L). CVB-D also concentration-dependently inhibited the secretion and 
mRNA expression of IL-1β and IL-6 in LPS-treated RAW264.7 cells. Furthermore, 
CVB-D remarkably inhibited the phosphorylation of STAT1 and STAT3, as well as 
JAK2 in LPS-treated RAW264.7 cells, but did not affect the activation of NF-κB 
and MAPKs pathways. Pretreatment with the JAK2 specific inhibitor AG490 (30 
μmol/L) produced similar effects on NO release and iNOS expression in 
LPS-treated RAW264.7 cells.
CONCLUSION: CVB-D exerts anti-inflammatory effects in LPS-stimulated murine 
macrophages in vitro at least in part by blocking the JAK-STAT signaling 
pathway. The anti-inflammatory actions of CVB-D may contribute to its 
cardioprotection.

DOI: 10.1038/aps.2014.16
PMCID: PMC4086391
PMID: 24747164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Int J Mol Med. 2014 Mar;33(3):670-6. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2013.1610. Epub 2013
Dec  27.

Transcriptome and miRNA network analysis of familial hypercholesterolemia.

Chen H(1), Wang L(2), Jiang J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Cardiology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University, 
Shanghai 200065, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, The General Hospital of Ningxia Medical 
University, Yinchuan, Ningxia 750004, P.R. China.

Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is a genetic disorder characterized by a high 
serum concentration of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. The high LDL 
cholesterol level leads to an excess deposition of cholesterol in the arterial 
walls and accelerated atherosclerosis, thereby increasing the risk of premature 
coronary heart disease. In the present study, we used a DNA microarray approach 
to identify gene expression profiles that distinguish patients with FH from 
healthy control subjects. Furthermore, transcription factors (TFs), microRNAs 
(miRNAs), target genes and pathways were analyzed to explore the potential 
transcriptional interactions occurring in FH. Publicly available microarray and 
regulation data were used to construct a regulatory network to identify 
additional genes related to FH and their interactions. The results revealed that 
specificity protein 1 (SP1), signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 
(STAT1) and spleen focus forming virus (SFFV) proviral integration oncogene spi1 
(SPI1) play a central role in the FH regulatory network. In addition, the TF, 
upstream transcription factor 2, c-fos interacting (USF2) and the gene, 
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS), were identified to be associated with FH, 
although no reports for these proteins exist in the literature. Overall, 
transcriptional network analysis proved to be effective approach to identify 
novel targets for FH therapy.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2013.1610
PMID: 24378567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Gene: IL10 ===
1. Biomedicines. 2025 Jun 6;13(6):1392. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13061392.

Immunological Markers of Cardiovascular Pathology in Older Patients.

Bugibayeva A(1), Kurmanova A(1), Abzaliyev K(1), Abzaliyeva S(1), Kurmanova 
G(1), Sundetova D(1), Abdykassymova M(1), Bitemirova R(1), Sagalbayeva U(1), 
Absatarova K(1), Suleimenova M(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Healthcare, Al-Farabi Kazakh National University, 
Almaty 050040, Kazakhstan.
(2)Faculty of Information Technology, Al-Farabi Kazakh National University, 
Almaty 050040, Kazakhstan.

Background: The aging process is accompanied by changes in the immunological 
status of a person. Immunosenescence is considered a significant cause of the 
development of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) in elderly people. However, to 
date, the relationship between immune/inflammatory processes and diseases 
associated with age is considered quite complex and is not fully understood. 
Immunophenotyping and the intracellular production of cytokines involved in the 
processes of inflammatory aging will allow us to identify biomarkers that are 
associated with cardiovascular diseases in the elderly. Objectives: To identify 
immunological markers associated with the process of inflammatory aging in older 
individuals with cardiovascular diseases. Methods: CD-phenotyping and 
intracellular cytokine analysis of peripheral blood using the flow cytometry 
method were conducted in 52 people over 60 years of age (group 1 had CVD and 
group 2 did not). Blood samples were stained with monoclonal antibodies (mAb) 
using Becton Dickinson (BD) reagents for the staining and binding of surface 
receptors CD4+, CD8+, CD14+, CD19+, CD16+, CD56+, CD59+, CD95+, and HLA DR+ and 
intracellular receptors TNF, IL-10, GM-CSF, VEGFR-2, IGF, and perforin. In 
addition, the following parameters were studied: questionnaire data (gender, 
age, alcohol consumption, smoking, physical activity, and marital status), 
clinical data (blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), body mass index (BMI)), 
comorbid conditions, and cardiovascular diseases (coronary heart disease (CHD), 
chronic heart failure (CHF), arterial hypertension (AH), previous myocardial 
infarction (PICS), diabetes mellitus (DM), atrial fibrillation (AF), and 
stroke). Results: The older patients with cardiovascular pathology had high 
levels of monocytes CD14+ (p = 0.014), low levels of CD8+ lymphocytes (p = 
0.046), and low intracellular production of GM-CSF (p = 0.013) compared to the 
older people without CVD. Conclusions: The revealed differences in the 
expression of CD14+ monocytes indicate their role in the development of 
cardiovascular pathology associated with age-related changes. A decrease in 
cytotoxic CD8+ lymphocytes and intracellular GM-CSF production leads to an 
increased risk of developing cardiovascular diseases in older individuals. These 
observed changes with age will not only expand existing knowledge about the 
aging of the regulatory link of the immune system but also help to obtain data 
to predict CVD in older people. Thus, the obtained results support the use of 
these immunological markers to identify the risk of circulatory disease and a 
personalized approach in geriatric practice.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13061392
PMCID: PMC12189633
PMID: 40564110

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analysis, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision 
to publish the results.


2. Diagnostics (Basel). 2025 May 11;15(10):1211. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics15101211.

Integrating the Interleukins in the Biomarker Panel for the Diagnosis and 
Prognosis of Patients with Acute Coronary Syndromes: Unraveling a Multifaceted 
Conundrum.

Timpau AS(1), Miftode EG(2), Costache-Enache II(1), Petris AO(1), Miftode IL(2), 
Mitu I(3), Miftode RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I (Cardiology), Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Medicine and Pharmacy "Grigore T. Popa", 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy "Grigore T. Popa", 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(3)Department of Morpho-Functional Sciences II, University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy "Grigore T. Popa", 700115 Iasi, Romania.

Background and Objectives: Despite the latest advancements in interventional 
procedures and pharmacological therapy, the incidence of heart failure and death 
rate following an acute myocardial remain unacceptably high. This study was 
designed in response to the limited and conflicting literature data regarding 
the diagnostic and prognostic role of modern inflammatory biomarkers in patients 
with coronary artery disease. Materials and Methods: We conducted a 
case-control, prospective observational study. A total of 145 patients were 
analyzed, of whom 105 patients had an acute coronary syndrome diagnosis and 
represented the study group, while 40 patients with a chronic coronary syndrome 
diagnosis represented the control group. This study investigates the diagnostic 
and prognostic role of the interleukin 1β (IL-1β), interleukin 6 (IL-6), 
interleukin 10 (IL-10), Growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15), and classic 
biomarkers in patients with ischemic coronary heart disease. Results: IL-1β 
exhibited a prognostic role, being significantly correlated with a left 
ventricular ejection fraction below 30%. GDF-15 plays a dual role, as a 
cardio-inflammatory biomarker, being significantly correlated with both 
N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), and IL-1β, IL-6, and CRP. 
At the same time, GDF-15 represents a surrogate marker for renal dysfunction. 
According to the ROC analysis, patients at high mortality risk can be identified 
with adequate accuracy by cardiac troponin, GDF-15, and IL-10, in addition to 
NT-proBNP. Logistic regression models confirmed NT-proBNP and IL-10 as mortality 
predictors. Conclusions: IL-1β stands out for its significant prognostic role, 
while IL-6 did not demonstrate a diagnostic or prognostic role in acute 
myocardial infarction patients. IL-10 demonstrated superior predictive value in 
terms of fatal prognosis compared with the other modern biomarkers. GDF-15 is 
representative of a multivalent biomarker involved in inflammation, heart 
failure, and renal dysfunction.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics15101211
PMCID: PMC12110678
PMID: 40428204

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


3. Diagnostics (Basel). 2025 Mar 27;15(7):850. doi: 10.3390/diagnostics15070850.

A Predictive Model of Cardiovascular Aging by Clinical and Immunological Markers 
Using Machine Learning.

Suleimenova M(1), Abzaliyev K(2), Mansurova M(1), Abzaliyeva S(1), Kurmanova 
A(2), Tokhtakulinova G(3), Bugibayeva A(2), Sundetova D(2), Abdykassymova M(2), 
Sagalbayeva U(2), Bitemirova R(2), Yerkin Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Big Data and Artificial Intelligence, Faculty of Information 
Technology, Al-Farabi Kazakh National University, Almaty 050040, Kazakhstan.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Healthcare, 
Al-Farabi Kazakh National University, Almaty 050040, Kazakhstan.
(3)Department of Strategic Research, Science Center of Obstetrics, Gynecology 
and Perinatology, Almaty 050020, Kazakhstan.

Background/Objectives: Aging and immune mechanisms play a key role in the 
development of cardiovascular disease (CVD), especially in the context of 
chronic inflammation. Therefore, in order to detect early aging in the elderly, 
we have developed a prognostic model based on clinical and immunological markers 
using machine learning. Methods: This paper analyzes the relationships between 
immunological markers, clinical parameters, and lifestyle factors in individuals 
over 60 years of age. A machine learning (ML) model including random forest, 
logistic regression, k-nearest neighbors, and XGBoost was developed to predict 
the aging rate and risk of CVD. Correlation anal is revealed significant 
associations between immune markers (CD14+, HLA-DR, IL-10, CD8+), clinical 
parameters (BMI, coronary heart disease, hypertension, diabetes), and behavioral 
factors (physical activity, smoking, alcohol). Results: The results of the study 
confirm that systemic inflammation, as reflected by markers such as CD14+, 
HLA-DR, and IL-10, plays a central role in the pathogenesis of aging and related 
diseases. CD14+ shows a moderate positive correlation with post-infarction 
cardiosclerosis, accounting for 37%. HLA-DR correlates with body mass index at 
39%. A negative association between IL-10 level and BMI was also found, where 
the correlation reaches 52% (r = -0.52). The level of CD8+ cells shows a 
negative correlation with smoking and their number, being 40%. Training was 
performed on clinical and immunological data and models were evaluated using 
accuracy, ROC-AUC, and F1-score metrics. Among all the trained models, the 
XGBoost model performed best, achieving an accuracy of 91% and an area under the 
ROC curve (AUC) of 0.8333. Conclusions: The study reveals significant 
correlations between immunological markers and clinical parameters, which allows 
the assessment of individual risks of premature cardiovascular aging. R (version 
4.3.0) and specialized libraries for correlation matrix construction and 
visualization were used for data analysis, and Python (version 3.11.11) was used 
for model development and training.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics15070850
PMCID: PMC11988897
PMID: 40218200

Conflict of interest statement: The authors confirm that there are no conflict 
of interest.


4. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 May 12;347:119741. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119741. Epub
 2025 Apr 10.

Xin-shu-bao tablets ameliorates ventricular remodeling against HFrEF via 
PPARγ/MFGE8 pathway based on MALDI-MSI and lipidomics.

Zhang F(1), Li Z(2), Zhang Y(1), Yang J(1), Xiao H(1), Li X(3), Yang H(4).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Basic Research on 
Prevention and Treatment for Major Diseases, Experimental Research Center, China 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Basic Research on 
Prevention and Treatment for Major Diseases, Experimental Research Center, China 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China; Chinese Pharmacology 
College, Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun, Jilin, 130117, 
China.
(3)Beijing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Basic Research on 
Prevention and Treatment for Major Diseases, Experimental Research Center, China 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China. Electronic address: 
phd_xianyuli@foxmail.com.
(4)Beijing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Basic Research on 
Prevention and Treatment for Major Diseases, Experimental Research Center, China 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China; State Key Laboratory for 
Quality Ensurance and Sustainable Use of Dao-di Herbs, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences, Beijing, 100700, China. Electronic address: 
hongjun0420@vip.sina.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Xin-shu-bao tablets (XSB), a traditional Chinese 
medicine widely prescribed in China, have received approval for its role in 
enhancing cardiac function in coronary heart disease patients. Lipid metabolism 
plays a critical role in the onset and progression of ventricular remodeling in 
heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). However, the 
pharmacological mechanisms through which XSB influences lipid metabolism in the 
context of ventricular remodeling with HFrEF have yet to be elucidated.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The aim of the present study was to explore the potential of 
XSB as an inhibitor of ventricular remodeling in patients with HFrEF and to 
uncover the mechanisms by which XSB exerts myocardial protection via lipid 
metabolism.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: To investigate the cardioprotective effects of XSB on 
HFrEF following myocardial infarction (MI), a murine model of MI generated by 
ligating the left anterior descending artery. The myocardial protective effects 
of XSB were evaluated through histological analysis of cardiac tissue and 
quantification of serum biomarkers associated with myocardial injury. Cardiac 
fibrosis was assessed using Masson's trichrome staining and Western blot 
analysis. Apoptosis, efferocytosis, and inflammation were measured through TUNEL 
staining, WB, and q-PCR in myocardial tissues. Differentially expressed 
metabolites in the myocardium were identified using MALDI-MSI and lipidomics 
analysis. Additionally, the involvement of the PPARγ/MFGE8 pathway in the 
cardioprotective effects of XSB was explored using Western blot validation in 
heart tissues. These approaches collectively aimed to elucidate the underlying 
mechanisms by which XSB exerts its cardioprotective effects, particularly 
through lipid metabolism.
RESULTS: Our findings demonstrated that treatment with XSB significantly 
attenuated structural and functional cardiac impairments, as indicated by 
improvements in cardiac function and reductions in apoptosis, efferocytosis, 
inflammation, and cardiac fibrosis in myocardial tissues. Specifically, XSB 
markedly decreased the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-6, 
IL-10, and TNF-α. Additionally, XSB downregulated the expression of 
apoptosis-related proteins BAX and Caspase-3, while increasing the expression of 
the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. Metabolomic analyses using MALDI-MSI and 
lipidomics revealed that XSB suppressed the elevated levels of glycerol 
phospholipids, such as PC(16:1e_22:5), PI(18:0_20:4), PI(18:2_20:4), 
PC(16:0e_22:4), LPS(18:0), PI(16:0_18:2), PC(19:0_22:6), and PS(18:1_22:6) in 
myocardial tissues. Furthermore, XSB modulated the expression of key proteins 
associated with lipid metabolism, including upregulation of PPARγ and SLC27A1, 
and downregulation of MFGE8, MERTK, and GSN. These results suggest that XSB 
exerts its cardioprotective effects through modulation of lipid metabolism and 
related signaling pathways.
CONCLUSIONS: XSB demonstrate cardioprotective effects by improving cardiac 
function and modulating ventricular remodeling processes in mice with HFrEF. 
These processes involve attenuation of inflammation, apoptosis, efferocytosis, 
and cardiac fibrosis. The cardioprotective mechanisms of XSB are mediated 
through the regulation of lipid metabolism via the PPARγ/MFGE8 signaling 
pathway.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119741
PMID: 40216048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


5. Prostaglandins Other Lipid Mediat. 2025 Jun;178:106990. doi: 
10.1016/j.prostaglandins.2025.106990. Epub 2025 Mar 29.

Decreased plasma lipoxin A4, resolvin D1, protectin D1 are correlated with the 
complexity and prognosis of coronary heart disease: A retrospective cohort 
study.

Wang YF(1), Zhu XT(1), Hu ZP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, Anhui 230022, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, Anhui 230022, China. Electronic address: 
huzepingahmu@sina.com.

This study aimed to assess the predictive capacity of specialized pro-resolving 
mediators (SPMs) regarding the complexity and prognosis of coronary heart 
disease (CHD). Total of 602 CHD patients were included in this study and 
categorized into low-risk, medium-risk, and high-risk groups based on the 
Synergy Between Percutaneous Coronary Intervention with Taxus and Cardiac 
Surgery (SYNTAX) score. Follow-up was conducted for two years, during which 
patients were dichotomized into poor and good prognosis groups. Additionally, 
twenty healthy controls were incorporated. Plasma concentrations of lipoxin A4 
(LXA4), resolvin D1 (RvD1), protectin D1 (PD1), C-reactive protein (CRP), 
interleukin-6 (IL-6), and IL-10 were quantified. Plasma LXA4, RvD1, PD1, and the 
ratios LXA4/IL-6, RvD1/IL-6, PD1/IL-6 exhibited a gradual decrease across 
control, low-risk, medium-risk, and high-risk groups and exhibited a negative 
correlation with the SYNTAX score. Spearman's correlation analysis revealed 
negative correlations between plasma LXA4, RvD1, PD1, and both CRP and IL-6, and 
positive correlations with IL-10. Multiple linear regression models demonstrated 
negative associations between plasma LXA4, RvD1, PD1, and SYNTAX score. 
Moreover, both univariate and multivariate binary logistic regression analyses 
identified plasma LXA4, RvD1, and PD1 as protective factors against 
medium/high-risk SYNTAX score categorization. In the poor prognosis group, 
plasma PD1 was reduced at short-term follow-up, and the ratios LXA4/IL-6, 
RvD1/IL-6, PD1/IL-6 were reduced at long-term follow-up. Plasma LXA4, RvD1, and 
PD1 demonstrated negative correlations with CHD complexity and potentially 
served as protective factors against CHD. Plasma PD1 provided predictive value 
for short-term prognosis, while the ratios LXA4/IL-6, RvD1/IL-6, PD1/IL-6 were 
indicative for long-term prognosis.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prostaglandins.2025.106990
PMID: 40164347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Gene: NLRP3 ===
1. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Jun 3;16:1566622. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1566622. 
eCollection 2025.

Trapidil attenuates diabetic cardiomyopathy via GPX3/Nrf2-mediated inhibition of 
myocardial pyroptosis.

Wang Z(#)(1), Sun Y(#)(1), Wang J(1), Xu Q(2), Wang L(1), Zhang Q(1), Song J(1), 
Wang Y(1), Qi Z(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Qiqihar Medical University, Qiqihar, Heilongjiang, 
China.
(2)College of Nursing, Qiqihar Medical University, Qiqihar, Heilongjiang, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Currently, there is a paucity of clinically effective medications 
for the treatment of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM), while the strategy of drug 
repurposing offers a promising avenue for advancing therapeutic development.
METHODS: The investigation explored the ameliorative effects and uncovered 
underlying mechanisms of trapidil (TRA), a drug commonly employed in the 
management of coronary heart disease, on DCM by inhibiting myocardial 
pyroptosis. Type 1 DCM models were established utilizing C57BL/6 mice and 
primary neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes (NMCMs), which were subsequently treated 
with TRA.
RESULTS: Results demonstrated that in DCM mice, TRA significantly enhanced 
cardiac function, effectively alleviated pathological changes in myocardial 
tissue, reversed ultrastructural alterations, and reduced pyroptosome formation 
in myocardial cells. TRA significantly increased the body weight of the mice in 
the DCM model group, whereas there was no significant alteration in blood 
glucose levels following TRA treatment. In the myocardial tissue of DCM mice and 
high-glucose (HG)-treated NMCMs, TRA was found to correct the aberrant 
expression of key proteins involved in pyroptosis, including cleaved-caspase1, 
NLRP3, phospho-NF-κB cyclooxygenase-2, interleukin Cleaved-IL-1β, Cleaved-IL-18, 
and gasdermin D. Furthermore, TRA effectively curtailed the excessive production 
of ROS and augmented the mitochondrial membrane potential in NMCMs under the HG 
environment. Proteomics analysis identified 90 differentially expressed proteins 
between DCM mice and TRA-treated mice, with glutathione peroxidase 3 (GPX3) 
emerging as a standout due to its critical role in the cellular antioxidant 
defense system. Further investigations revealed that the protein and mRNA levels 
of GPX3, as well as the activated Nrf2 protein levels, were significantly 
downregulated in the myocardial tissue of DCM mice and HG-treated NMCMs cells. 
However, these levels were notably upregulated following TRA treatment. Upon 
knocking down GPX3 mRNA expression using siRNA technology, the anti-pyroptotic 
effect of TRA in cardiomyocytes was markedly diminished, and the level of 
activated Nrf2 protein also significantly decreased.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, TRA holds potential for improving DCM, with the 
inhibition of myocardial pyroptosis via the GPX3/Nrf2 pathway playing a pivotal 
role. HG-induced Downregulation of the GPX3/Nrf2 pathway is a critical mechanism 
underlying pyroptosis in DCM. This pathway can be targeted for the design of 
DCM-related therapeutics, utilizing the aforementioned signaling mechanisms.

Copyright © 2025 Wang, Sun, Wang, Xu, Wang, Zhang, Song, Wang and Qi.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1566622
PMCID: PMC12170559
PMID: 40529489

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


2. Int Immunopharmacol. 2025 May 27;156:114732. doi:
10.1016/j.intimp.2025.114732.  Epub 2025 Apr 27.

Colchicine inhibits myocardial pyroptosis and reduces myocardial cell injury 
after myocardial infarction through the ESR1-PI3K-Akt-NF-κB signaling pathway.

Chen Y(1), Bao S(1), Ding Y(2), Weng G(1), Zheng S(1), Ge C(3), Zhang C(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui 
Medical University, Hefei, Anhui 230022, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, the First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, School of Pharmacy, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China.
(3)The Grade 3 Pharmaceutical Chemistry Laboratory of State Administration of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Hefei, China.
(4)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui 
Medical University, Hefei, Anhui 230022, China. Electronic address: 
zhangchengxin@ahmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Inflammation serves as a critical driver in coronary 
artery disease pathogenesis. Emerging clinical evidence demonstrates that 
low-dose colchicine therapy significantly reduces ischemic event incidence in 
patients with coronary heart disease while attenuating myocardial 
ischemia-induced inflammatory cascades. Nevertheless, the precise 
cardioprotective mechanisms underlying colchicine-a plant-derived 
anti-inflammatory agent-in limiting post-infarction cardiomyocyte injury remain 
incompletely elucidated. This study systematically investigates colchicine's 
myocardial preservation mechanisms through an integrated experimental approach.
METHOD: To establish experimental models of myocardial injury, we performed 
permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) in mice 
for in vivo studies, while HL-1 mouse atrial cardiomyocytes were treated with 
0.3 mM H₂O₂ to induce oxidative stress in vitro. Following successful model 
validation, colchicine was administered to both systems. Comprehensive 
evaluations included echocardiographic assessment of cardiac function, 
histological examination of inflammatory infiltration and collagen deposition 
through H&E and Masson's trichrome staining respectively, quantitative analysis 
of cardiomyocyte apoptosis by flow cytometry, and Western blot detection of key 
signaling pathway components and pyroptosis-related proteins (including NLRP3, 
caspase-1, and GSDMD).
RESULT: Our experimental data revealed that colchicine treatment significantly 
attenuated myocardial injury and fibrosis while improving cardiac function 
(P < 0.05). Mechanistically, colchicine administration reduced proinflammatory 
cytokine release (IL-1β and IL-18), decreased neutrophil infiltration, and 
suppressed cardiomyocyte pyroptosis. These cardioprotective effects were 
associated with modulation of the ESR1-PI3K-Akt-NF-κB signaling pathway 
(P < 0.05), suggesting a potential therapeutic mechanism for colchicine in 
myocardial protection.
CONCLUSION: Colchicine inhibits myocardial pyroptosis and reduces myocardial 
cell injury after myocardial infarction through the ESR1-PI3K-Akt-NF-κB 
signaling pathway.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2025.114732
PMID: 40294468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


3. Minerva Cardiol Angiol. 2025 Mar 28. doi: 10.23736/S2724-5683.24.06618-3.
Online  ahead of print.

Diagnostic performance of RAC2 combined with CT-FFR parameters in coronary heart 
disease.

Zhu Z(1), Xu J(1), Wang H(1), Jin W(1), Liu M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, No. 903 Hospital of PLA Joint Logistic Support 
Force, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Radiology, No. 903 Hospital of PLA Joint Logistic Support 
Force, Hangzhou, China - liumiao903th@163.com.

BACKGROUND: The incidence and mortality of coronary heart disease (CHD) are high 
in the elderly population. CT fractional flow reserve (CT-FFR) is a potential 
diagnostic technique for cardiovascular diseases. In order to mine valuable 
biomarkers to combine CT-FFR parameters to improve the diagnostic accuracy of 
CHD.
METHODS: In this study, GEO database was used to screen the key genes of CHD. 
GraphPad software was used to construct receiver operating characteristic (ROC) 
curve, and SPSS software was used for logistic regression analysis. Inflammatory 
cell model was constructed by treating human cardiac microvascular endothelial 
cells (HMVEC-Cs) with TNF-α to explore the role of RAC2 in this process.
RESULTS: Real time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) results showed high-expression of 
RAC2 in CHD patients, which were reversed after nitric ester drug therapy. The 
analysis of ROC curves displayed that RAC2 combined with CT-FFR had a higher 
diagnostic value for CHD (AUC=0.971, 95% CI 0.950-0.992) compared to the single 
factor, and RAC2 was an independent risk factor for poor prognosis in CHD 
patients treated with nitric ester drugs (AUC=0.888, 95% CI 0.814-0.961, 
P<0.001). Overexpression of RAC2 further enhanced the elevated expression levels 
of NF-κB, NLRP3, IL-1β, and IL-6, induced by TNF-α, and its silence had the 
opposite effect.
CONCLUSIONS: RAC2 promoted the inflammatory response of HMVEC-Cs and predicted a 
poor prognosis in CHD patients. The combination of RAC2 and CT-FFR parameters 
was a good classifier for diagnosing CHD.

DOI: 10.23736/S2724-5683.24.06618-3
PMID: 40152034


4. Curr Protein Pept Sci. 2025;26(6):480-492. doi: 
10.2174/0113892037338952241113104224.

The Expression Characteristics and Interrelationships of FNDC5 and 
Pyroptosis-Associated Molecules in the Peripheral Blood of Patients with 
Coronary Heart Disease.

Pan Y(1)(2), Ou H(2), Liu D(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Clinical Medicine, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang, Guizhou, 
550004, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, The Affiliated Hospital of Guizhou Medical 
University, Guiyang, Guizhou, 550004, China.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to investigate the expression 
characteristics and interrelationships of FNDC5 and pyroptosis-associated 
molecules in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with coronary heart 
disease (CHD).
METHODS: Patients were divided into stable angina (SA), unstable angina (UA), 
and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) groups based on different clinical 
symptoms. According to the Gensini score, they were then divided into mild, 
moderate, and severe lesion groups. The control (NC) group was also set. ELISA 
assay was employed to detect the levels of Irisin, IL-1β, and IL-18, and the 
levels of pyroptosis-associated molecules, NF-κB p50, NF-κB p65, and FNDC5 were 
detected and compared by qRT-PCR and Western blot (WB). Logistic regression and 
Spearman's partial correlation analysis were used to analyze the pathogenic 
factors of CHD and explore the interrelationships between FNDC5 and the 
molecules.
RESULTS: IL-1β and IL-18 of CHD patients were increased, while the Irisin was 
decreased. With the aggravation of symptoms and severity of coronary artery 
stenosis, the former increased, and the Irisin gradually decreased (P<0.05). 
About qRT-PCR and WB: With the aggravation of symptoms, the levels of 
pyroptosis-associated molecules and other indicators were increased, and FNDC5 
was decreased (Pπ0.05). NLRP3, Caspase-1, and NF-κB p50 protein were positively 
correlated with the incidence of CHD, and FNDC5 was also negatively correlated 
with that of CHD. Even when common risk factors for CHD were taken into account, 
FNDC5 and NLRP3 were still found to be negatively connected.
CONCLUSION: The decreased expression level of FNDC5 and the increased level of 
pyroptosis-associated molecules may be related to CHD.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113892037338952241113104224
PMID: 39810517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Immunopharmacol Immunotoxicol. 2024 Dec;46(6):902-911. doi: 
10.1080/08923973.2024.2421528. Epub 2024 Nov 5.

Cardioprotective effect of tofisopam against isoprenaline-induced myocardial 
infarction in rats via modulation of NLRP3\IL-1β\caspase-1 pathway.

Abdelmonaem AA(1), Abdel-Aziz AM(1), Ibrahim YF(1), Abdelzaher WY(1), Amgad 
Mohammed N(2), Marey H(3), S Taghian A(4), Setouhi A(5), Radi A(5), Ahmed SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, Minia, 
Egypt.
(2)Department of Histology and Cell Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Minia 
University, Minia, Egypt.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, Minia, 
Egypt.
(4)Department of Forensic Medicine and Clinical Toxicology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Minia University, Minia, Egypt.
(5)Department of Cardiology, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, Minia, 
Egypt.

PURPOSE: Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are a leading cause of morbidity and 
mortality worldwide. Ischemic heart diseases, particularly acute myocardial 
infarction (MI), represent the most common cause of death. MI is influenced by 
multiple factors, including the release of inflammatory mediators. A significant 
percentage of individuals with CVD experience psychological effects, such as 
anxiety and depression, which are linked to an increased risk of coronary heart 
disease. Certain anti-anxiety medications have demonstrated immunomodulatory and 
anti-inflammatory effects. Tofisopam, a 2,3-benzodiazepine with anxiolytic 
properties, has been shown to exert in vitro anti-inflammatory and 
immunomodulatory effects. The present study investigates the potential of 
tofisopam as a protective adjuvant against isoprenaline-induced MI in rats and 
explores the possible underlying mechanisms.
METHODS: The study included four groups: a control group, a group pretreated 
with tofisopam, an isoprenaline toxic group, and an isoprenaline toxic group 
pretreated with tofisopam.
RESULTS: The findings demonstrated that isoprenaline significantly increased 
cardiac enzyme levels, as well as elevated oxidative and inflammatory stress 
parameters, along with evident apoptosis in cardiac cells. In contrast, the 
tofisopam-pretreated group showed a significant reversal of the cardiac damage 
induced by isoprenaline.
CONCLUSIONS: Tofisopam protects against isoprenaline-induced MI through its 
antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-apoptotic properties.

DOI: 10.1080/08923973.2024.2421528
PMID: 39448368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Gene: ICOS ===
No results found.


=== Gene: TLR2 ===
1. Curr Med Chem. 2024 Sep 5. doi: 10.2174/0109298673309995240829060533. Online 
ahead of print.

Interplay between Pro-inflammatory Mediators and Oxidative Stressinvolved 
Recurrent Chronic Heart Failure in Elderly Patients with Coronary Stents.

Li X(1), Zhao Y(1), Zhou H(2), Hu Y(2), Chen Y(2), Guo D(1).

Author information:
(1)Xiamen Road Branch Hospital, The Affiliated Huaian Hospital of Xuzhou Medical 
University, Huaian, 223005, China.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, The Affiliated Huaian Hospital of Xuzhou Medical 
University, Huaian, 223002, China.

INTRODUCTION: Inflammation and oxidative stress are related to congestive heart 
failure in patients with coronary heart disease.
OBJECTIVE: Chronic congestive heart failure is a serious stage of coronary 
artery disease and is mainly a disease of elderly people over the age of 65. 
Elderly heart failure patients are characterized by myocardial ischemia, and 
post-ischemic myocardial dysfunction. Oxidative Stress, inflammation, and immune 
response play important roles in the development of heart failure. We tried to 
examine the mutual triggering of oxidative stress (malondialdehyde), 
inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-α and soluble tumor necrosis 
factor receptor-1/2), immune response (toll-like receptors 2,3,4), and high 
sensitivity C-reactive protein expression in elderly patients with recurrent 
congestive heart failure after coronary stenting and investigated the effect of 
interplay of these changes on onset and progression of recurrent congestive 
heart failure in elderly patients underwent coronary stent implantation.
METHODS: A total of 726 patients were enrolled in this study. We determined the 
levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), 
tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF- α), soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor-1 and 2 
(sTNFR-1/2) and toll-like receptor 2,3,4 (TLR2/3/4) in elderly patients with 
recurrent congestive heart failure after coronary artery stent implantation.
RESULTS: Levels of MDA, hs-CRP, TNF-α, sTNFR-1, sTNFR-2, TLR2, TLR3 and TLR4 
were remarkably increased (p<0.01) in elderly patients with recurrent congestive 
heart failure after coronary artery stenting. The results indicated that these 
markers were closely correlated to each other and showed that these markers were 
associated with increased New York Heart Association functional classification 
and low left ventricular ejection fractions. Further analysis confirmed that the 
independent clinical risk factors for recurrent congestive heart failure were 
MDA, hs-CRP, TNF-α, sTNFR-1, sTNFR-2, TLR2, TLR3 and TLR4. The interplay of 
oxidative stress, inflammatory cytokines and toll-like receptors, and hs-CRP 
expression levels was an important factor involved in recurrent congestive heart 
failure of elderly patients after coronary stenting.
CONCLUSION: High levels of MDA, hs-CRP, TNF-α, sTNFR-1, sTNFR-2, TLR2, TLR3 and 
TLR4 had an important implication for recurrent heart failure with increased New 
York Heart Association functional classification and low left ventricular 
ejection fractions. These eight factors amplified each other's positive effects 
and this interaction may be a key element of their roles in recurrent heart 
failure. The eight risk factors were inter-dependent and occurred 
simultaneously, and exerted detrimental effects forming a vicious circle. MDA 
may trigger the over-expressions of pro-inflammatory risk factors (hs-CRP, 
TNF-α, sTNFR-1, sTNFR-2) through the activation of TLRs as risk factors (TLR2, 
TLR3 and TLR4) contributing to the dysfunction of myocardial mitochondria, 
cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, maladaptive myocardial remodeling, myocardial 
interstitial fibrosis, cardiac systolic decrease and recurrent heart failure. 
These eight risk factors were the basis of the mechanisms of recurrent heart 
failure. Therefore, the mutual triggering of oxidative stress, inflammatory and 
toll-like receptor signaling pathways, and hs-CRP expression could play key 
roles in the development of recurrent congestive heart failure in elderly 
patients after coronary stenting.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0109298673309995240829060533
PMID: 39238392


2. Adv Gerontol. 2024;37(3):259-265.

[Hyaluronan receptors: role in aging and age-associated processes.].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Khabarov VN(1), Drobintseva AO(2)(3), Kvetnaya TV(4), Mironova ES(3)(4), 
Zubareva TS(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Scientific Research Center of Hyaluronic Acid, 38/16 Komsomolsky pr., Moscow 
119146, Russian Federation.
(2)Saint-Petersburg State Pediatric Medical University, 2 Litovskaya str., St. 
Petersburg 194100, Russian Federation, e-mail: anna.drobintseva@gmail.com.
(3)Saint-Petersburg Research Institute of Phthisiopulmonology, 2-4 Ligovsky pr., 
St. Petersburg 191063, Russian Federation.
(4)Saint-Petersburg Institute of Bioregulation and Gerontology, 3 Dinamo pr., 
St. Petersburg 197110, Russian Federation.

The review describes the involvement of various hyaluronic acid receptors, 
including CD44, RHAMM, HARE, TLR, LYVE-1, in maintaining normal homeostasis and 
aging, as well as in the development of age-associated inflammatory processes 
(inflamaging) and malignant tumors. The association of CD44 receptor activation 
with immune cells and the development of coronary heart disease has been shown. 
In addition, a link between the CD44 receptor and osteoarthritis has been shown, 
via TLR2 and TLR4. The oncogenic potential of RHAMM in relation to breast, 
prostate, leukemia, pancreas, lung and glioblastoma cancers has been described, 
with the strongest expression observed in metastatic tumors. In vivo and in 
vitro experiments, it was found that fragments of hyaluronic acid with a length 
of 4 to 25 disaccharides can contribute to the proliferation of lymphatic 
endothelial cells and lymphangiogenesis. Thus, hyaluronic acid receptors play an 
important role in the aging process through the regulation of inflamaging and in 
the development of malignant neoplasms.

Publisher: В обзоре описано участие разнообразных рецепторов гиалуроновой 
кислоты, включая CD44, RHAMM, HARE, TLR, LYVE-1, в поддержании гомеостаза в 
норме и при старении, а также в развитии возраст-ассоциированных воспалительных 
процессов (инфламэйджинга) и злокачественных опухолей. Показана связь активации 
рецепторов CD44 c иммунными клетками и развитием ИБС. Кроме того, показана связь 
рецептора CD44 и остеоартрита, через TLR2 и TLR4. Описан онкогенный потенциал 
RHAMM в отношении рака молочной железы, предстательной железы, лейкемии, 
поджелудочной железы, легких и глиобластомы, причем наиболее сильную экспрессию 
наблюдают в метастатических опухолях. В экспериментах in vivo и in vitro 
установлено, что фрагменты гиалуроновой кислоты длиной 4–25 дисахаридов могут 
способствовать пролиферации лимфатических эндотелиальных клеток и 
лимфангиогенезу. Таким образом, рецепторы гиалуронанов играют важную роль в 
процессах старения через регуляцию инфламэйджинга и в развитии злокачественных 
новообразований.

PMID: 39139118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Int Immunopharmacol. 2021 Jun;95:107582. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2021.107582.
Epub  2021 Mar 25.

Simvastatin mitigates depressive-like behavior in ovariectomized rats: Possible 
role of NLRP3 inflammasome and estrogen receptors' modulation.

Menze ET(1), Ezzat H(2), Shawky S(2), Sami M(2), Selim EH(2), Ahmed S(2), Maged 
N(2), Nadeem N(2), Eldash S(2), Michel HE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain Shams 
University, Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain Shams 
University, Cairo, Egypt. Electronic address: heidieffat@pharma.asu.edu.eg.

It is well known that females are more vulnerable than males to stress-related 
psychiatric disorders, particularly during perimenopausal and postmenopausal 
periods. Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) has been widely used for the 
management of postmenopausal depression. However, HRT could be associated with 
severe adverse effects, including increased risk for coronary heart disease, 
breast cancer and endometrial cancer. Thus, there is a pressing demand for novel 
therapeutic options for postmenopausal depression without sacrificing uterine 
health. Simvastatin (SIM) was proven to have neuroprotective activities besides 
its hypocholesterolemic effect, the former can be attributed to its, 
antioxidant, anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory activities. Moreover, many 
reports highlighted that SIM has estrogenic activity and was able to induce the 
expression of estrogen receptors in rats. The present study showed that SIM 
(20 mg/kg, p.o.) markedly attenuated depressive-like behavior in ovariectomized 
(OVX) rats. Moreover, SIM prohibited hippocampal microglial activation, 
abrogated P2X7 receptor, TLR2 and TLR4 expression, inhibited NLRP3 inflammasome 
activation, with subsequent reduction in the levels of pro-inflammatory 
mediators; IL-1β and IL-18. Furthermore, a marked elevation in hippocampal 
expression of ERα and ERβ was noted in SIM-treated animals, without any 
significant effect on uterine relative weight or ERα expression. Taken together, 
SIM could provide a safer alternative for HRT for the management of 
postmenopausal depression, without any hyperplastic effect on the uterus.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2021.107582
PMID: 33774267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. IUBMB Life. 2020 May;72(5):1023-1033. doi: 10.1002/iub.2239. Epub 2020 Feb 5.

Oxidative stress and inflammation: Early predictive indicators of multiple 
recurrent coronary in-stent chronic total occlusions in elderly patients after 
coronary stenting.

Li X(1), Zhou H(1), Guo D(1), Hu Y(1), Fang X(1), Chen Y(1), Zhang F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, The Affiliated Huai'an Hospital of Xuzhou Medical 
University, Huai'an, China.

Pro-inflammatory responses and oxidative stress damages, and effects of the 
reduced anti-oxidation and anti-inflammation were involved in development and 
progression of coronary heart disease. We tried to identify the effects of 
pro-inflammatory and oxidative stress biomarkers as well as anti-oxidant and 
anti-inflammatory factors on multiple recurrent coronary in-stent chronic total 
occlusions in elderly patients after coronary stenting. We determined the 
expression levels of endothelial progenitor cell (EPC), stromal cell-derived 
factor-1α (SDF-1α), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), nitric oxide 
(NO), toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3), toll-like 
receptor 4 (TLR4), and soluble ST2 (sST2) in elderly patients with multiple 
recurrent coronary in-stent chronic total occlusions after coronary stenting. 
The levels of EPC, SDF-1α, VEGF, and NO were decreased in elderly patients with 
multiple recurrent coronary in-stent chronic total occlusions (p < .001). The 
levels of TLR2, TLR3, TLR4, and sST2 were increased in elderly patients with 
multiple recurrent coronary in-stent chronic total occlusions (p < .001). The 
oxidative stress damages and pro-inflammatory responses played the crucial roles 
in multiple recurrent coronary in-stent chronic total occlusions of elderly 
patients after coronary stent placement. The levels of TLR2, TLR3, TLR4, and 
sST2, and the expressions of EPC, SDF-1α, VEGF, and NO could be considered as 
potential early predictive indicators for multiple recurrent coronary in-stent 
chronic total occlusions in elderly patients after coronary stent implantation.

© 2020 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/iub.2239
PMID: 32022379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Exp Ther Med. 2019 Sep;18(3):2346-2352. doi: 10.3892/etm.2019.7805. Epub 2019 
Jul 24.

Correlation between coronary stenosis and Toll-like receptors 2 and 4 levels in 
Chinese Zhuang patients with coronary heart disease.

Huang Z(1)(2), Liu Y(1)(2), Liang L(2), Liu W(2), Sooranna SR(3), Mo J(2), Liu 
L(2), Li Z(2), Li K(2), Guo J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinan University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong 510630, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Affiliated Hospital of Youjiang Medical University 
for Nationalities, Baise, Guangxi 533000, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial College London, Chelsea and 
Westminster Hospital, London SW10 9NH, UK.

The present study attempted to determine the correlation of the degree of 
coronary artery stenosis and Tolllike receptor 2/4 (TLR2/4) levels in Chinese 
Zhuang patients with coronary heart disease (CHD). A total of 466 Chinese 
patients from the Zhuang Ethnic population diagnosed with CHD at the Department 
of Cardiology the Affiliated Hospital of Youjiang Medical University between 
January 2016 and August 2017, together with 102 control patients, were recruited 
for the present study. The patients with CHD were divided into three groups 
depending on the number of diseased arteries. The patients with CHD were also 
classified according to their Gensini scores. Blood liver and renal function 
parameters, as well as blood sugar and lipid levels were measured. ELISA was 
used for TLR2/4 measurements. There were no significant differences with gender, 
age and body mass index between the CHD and control groups. The levels of TLR2/4 
in the peripheral blood of the control and CHD groups were 2.34±0.85/5.08±2.41 
and 5.22±3.16/9.33±4.92 ng/ml, respectively, and the differences were 
significant (P<0.001). Analysis of the three subgroups of vessel disease 
indicated that the expression of TLR2/4 was progressively higher with the 
increase in the number of affected vessels (P<0.01). There were also significant 
differences between the mild, moderate and severe stenosis groups (P<0.01). A 
positive linear correlation between TLR2/4 and the Gensini coronary artery score 
was identified (r=0.508 and 0.346, respectively; P<0.0001). In conclusion, the 
present study determined a positive correlation between the degree of coronary 
artery stenosis and the expression level of TLR2/4 in the serum of Chinese 
Zhuang patients with CHD. Serum TLR2/4 may be used to predict the severity of 
CHD.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2019.7805
PMCID: PMC6704546
PMID: 31452718

=== Gene: CD80 ===
1. Mediators Inflamm. 2021 Mar 27;2021:5568159. doi: 10.1155/2021/5568159. 
eCollection 2021.

Effect of GLP-1/GLP-1R on the Polarization of Macrophages in the Occurrence and 
Development of Atherosclerosis.

Yang L(1), Chen L(1), Li D(1), Xu H(1), Chen J(1), Min X(1), He M(2), Wu T(2), 
Zhong J(3), Yang H(1), Chen J(1).

Author information:
(1)Affiliated Dongfeng Hospital, Hubei University of Medicine, Shiyan, China.
(2)School of Public Health, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of 
Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(3)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, Tongji Hospital, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

AIMS: To investigate the effect of GLP-1/GLP-1R on the polarization of 
macrophages in the occurrence and development of atherosclerosis.
METHODS: Totally, 49 patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) and 52 cases of 
health control (HC) were recruited, all subjects accept coronary angiography 
gold standard inspection. One or more major coronary arteries (LM, LAD, LCx, and 
RCA) stenosis degree in 50% of patients as CHD group; the rest of the stenosis 
less than 50% or not seen obvious stenosis are assigned to the HC group. Flow 
cytometry were used to detect the percentage of (CD14+) M macrophages, 
(CD14+CD80+) M1 macrophages, (CD14+CD206+) M2 macrophages, and their surface 
GLP-1R expression differences in the two groups, using BD cytokine kit to detect 
the levels of IL-8, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10, TNF, and IL-12p70.
RESULTS: GLP-1R expression on the surface of total macrophages and M2 
macrophages was different between the CHD group and the HC group (P < 0.05). 
There was no difference in the percentage of total, M1 or M2 macrophages (P > 
0.05). Concentration of IL-8 in the HC group was higher than that in the CHD 
group (P < 0.05). There is no significant difference in the cytokine IL-1β, 
IL-6, IL-10, TNF, and IL-12p70 in the two groups (P > 0.05). After controlling 
for potential confounders including age, gender, smoking status (S.S.), drinking 
status (D.S.), HR, SBP, DBP, PP, TC, TG, HDL-C, LDL-C, GHbA1c, M, M1, M2, 
GLP-1R_M, GLP-1R_M1, GLP-1R_M2, IL-8, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10, TNF, and IL-12p70 by 
multiple linear regression, decreasing Gensini Score was significantly 
associated with increased percentage of M1 macrophage.
CONCLUSION: GLP-1R agonist is independent of the hypoglycemic effect of T2DM and 
has protective effect on cardiovascular system. GLP-1R may regulate the 
polarization of macrophages toward M2, thus playing a protective role in the 
progression of coronary atherosclerosis.

Copyright © 2021 Li Yang et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/5568159
PMCID: PMC8019627
PMID: 33854404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.


2. Cell Physiol Biochem. 2013;32(4):931-41. doi: 10.1159/000354496. Epub 2013 Oct
 1.

Kruppel-like factor 2 regulates dendritic cell activation in patients with acute 
coronary syndrome.

Fang H(1), Lin J, Wang L, Xie P, Wang X, Fu J, Ai W, Chen S, Chen F, Zhang F, Su 
Y, Li D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Shenzhen Sixth People's Hospital (Nanshan 
Hospital), Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Union Shenzhen 
Hospital, Shenzhen, China.

OBJECTIVE: Dendritic cells (DCs) activation is important in atherosclerosis and 
coronary heart disease, but the mechanisms regulating activation of dendritic 
cells remain largely unclear. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect 
of transcription factor Kruppel-like factor 2 (KLF2) in the proinflammatory 
activation of DCs in acute coronary syndrome.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In this study, the expression of CD80 and KLF2 was detected 
in DCs in normal health controls, patients with stable angina (SA), and acute 
coronary syndrome (ACS). Our study found that compared with normal control and 
SA, KLF2 expression in DCs is reduced in patients with ACS. Moreover, the 
surface expression of CD80 was increased in ACS. In vitro experiment, we found 
that ox-LDL could increase CD80 expression and decrease KLF2 expression. 
Furthermore, down-regulated KLF2 could in turn increase CD80 expression via 
NF-κB pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: These observations identify KLF2 as a novel negative regulator of 
DC function and it may play an essential role in DC activation in ACS.

© 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000354496
PMID: 24107715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Zhong Nan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2010 May;35(5):476-82. doi: 
10.3969/j.issn.1672-7347.2010.05.012.

[Dendritic cells and coronary collateral circulation in coronary heart disease].

[Article in Chinese]

Li C(1), Liu W, Yi J, Li Z, Pu X, Yang T, Xie Q, Mo L, Chen X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha 410008, China.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the relationship between the number,phenotype and 
functional status of dendritic cells (DCs) and coronary collateral circulation 
(CCC) in coronary heart disease (CHD).
METHODS: Forty patients with severe coronary stenosis were recruited and divided 
into a CCC formation group (Group A, n=22) and a non-CCC formation group (Group 
B, n=18). Density gradient centrifugation was applied to separate the 
mononuclear cells (MNCs) from coronary artery blood samples, and MNCs were 
cultured and proliferated in vitro. The morphology of DCs was observed under 
converted microscope. The number of harvested cells and DCs was counted by 
hematocytometer. Flow cytometry was applied to investigate the phenotype and the 
mean fluorescence intensity (MFI). Mixed lymphocyte reaction was used to test 
the function of DCs to stimulate the proliferation of T lymphocytes. Stimulation 
index (SI) was calculated and compared.
RESULTS: (1) After in vitro proliferation, DCs were cultured successfully from 
the mononuclear cells from coronary artery blood samples and the morphology of 
DCs was not different in the 2 groups. (2) The number of mononuclear cells (MNC 
no) was (3.95+/-1.41)*10(6), in the CCC group and (2.76+/-0.92)*10(6) in the 
non-CCC group. The MNC number was significantly increased in the CCC group 
(P=0.003). (3) The number of DCs was (1.54+/-0.96)*10(6) in the CCC group, and 
(0.99+/-0.46)*10(6) in the non-CCC group (P=0.033). (4)There was no statistical 
significance in the percent of CD1a+, CD1a+CD80+, CD1a+CD83+, CD1a+CD86+ cells, 
and MFI in the 2 groups (P>0.05). (5) SI was 4.96+/-2.30 in the CCC group, 
whereas 2.66+/-1.04 in the non-CCC group. The SI in the CCC group increased 
significantly(P=0.0003).
CONCLUSION: In CHD patients with severe coronary stenosis, patients with CCC 
formation have higher number of DCs and stronger potential of T lymphocyte 
stimulation.

DOI: 10.3969/j.issn.1672-7347.2010.05.012
PMID: 20543472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Gene: PDCD1 ===
No results found.


=== Gene: STAT3 ===
1. Heliyon. 2024 Sep 14;10(18):e37937. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e37937. 
eCollection 2024 Sep 30.

Insights into diosgenin against inflammatory bowel disease as functional food 
based on network pharmacology and molecular docking.

Cai M(1)(2), Mao Y(1)(2), Gao W(1)(2), Wang Z(1)(2), Mao J(1)(2), Sha R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological and Chemical Engineering, Zhejiang University of Science 
and Technology, Hangzhou, 310023, China.
(2)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory for Chemical & Biological Processing 
Technology of Farm Product, Hangzhou, 310023, China.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a growing global health problem. IBD is 
commonly prevalent in Europe and America and the incidence rate in Asia is on 
the rise due to altered dietary structure. Diosgenin is a natural steroidal 
saponin derived from Dioscorea plants. Diosgenin is the main active ingredient 
of some Chinese medicines which are mainly used to treat coronary heart disease, 
angina and hyperlipidemia. Recently, growing evidence has exhibited a crucial 
role of diosgenin and dioscin in alleviating IBD in multiple ways. However, the 
precise mechanism of diosgenin against IBD needs further exploration. In this 
study, network pharmacological and systematic bioinformatic analyses were 
performed to investigate the diosgenin's targets against IBD. 71 targets such as 
SRC, TNF and STAT3 were identified as overlapped genes between diosgenin and 
IBD. Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) 
enrichment analysis exhibited their involvement in the tyrosine kinase signaling 
pathway and its membrane receptors. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) 
tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance and its downstream Ras-MAPK pathway and 
PI3K-Akt pathway might become the mechanism of diosgenin against IBD. In 
addition, molecular docking analysis showed that diosgenin has the massive 
potential of direct binding to tyrosine kinase and its receptors such as SRC, 
EGFR, FGFR1 and VEGFR. The results above collectively provided evidence that 
diosgenin is a promising nutraceutical food against IBD.

© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e37937
PMCID: PMC11422009
PMID: 39323838

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


2. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Jan 30;337(Pt 1):118779. doi:
10.1016/j.jep.2024.118779.  Epub 2024 Sep 5.

Exploring the underlying mechanisms of Danshen-Shanzha Decoction on coronary 
heart disease: An integrated analysis combining pharmacoinformatics and 
experimental validation.

Feng T(1), Xu Q(1), Yu Z(2), Song F(1), Luo Q(3), Wang S(3), Tang H(4), Li H(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chinese Materia Medica and Natural Medicines, School of 
Pharmacy, Air Force Medical University, Xi'an, 710032, China.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, School of Pharmacy, Air Force Medical 
University, Xi'an, 710032, China.
(3)Department of Chinese Materia Medica and Natural Medicines, School of 
Pharmacy, Air Force Medical University, Xi'an, 710032, China; College of Life 
Science and Medicine, Northwest University, Xi'an, 710069, China.
(4)Department of Chinese Materia Medica and Natural Medicines, School of 
Pharmacy, Air Force Medical University, Xi'an, 710032, China. Electronic 
address: tanghaifeng71@163.com.
(5)Department of Chinese Materia Medica and Natural Medicines, School of 
Pharmacy, Air Force Medical University, Xi'an, 710032, China. Electronic 
address: lihuasmile@aliyun.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The Danshen-Shanzha Decoction (DSD) is a 
renowned herbal combination consisting of the root of Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge 
(known as Danshen in Chinese) and the fruits of Crataegus pinnatifida Bunge 
(known as Shanzha in Chinese), which has exhibited remarkable clinical efficacy 
in the treatment of coronary heart disease (CHD) in traditional Chinese 
medicine, with its earliest recorded application dating to around 202 BCE during 
the Han Dynasty. Despite significant advancements in the fundamental research 
and clinical applications of DSD over the past few decades, the precise 
bioactive components as well as the underlying mechanisms responsible for its 
protective effect on CHD remain unelucidated.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The present study was designed to elucidate the bioactive 
components and potential mechanism of DSD in the treatment of CHD using in 
silico technologies integrated with pharmacoinformatic methods and experimental 
validation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The chemical components of DSD were analyzed and 
identified using UPLC-Q-TOF-MS. Pharmacoinformatic-based methods were employed 
to comprehensively investigate the principal active components and targets of 
DSD for treating CHD. GO and KEGG pathway analyses were utilized to elucidate 
the underlying mechanism responsible for DSD's efficacy against CHD. Molecular 
docking and molecular dynamics simulation were performed to assess the binding 
affinity between active components and putative targets. Furthermore, surface 
plasmon resonance (SPR) was carried out to verify the affinity and kinetic 
characteristics of major components to STAT3 protein. Subsequently, a series of 
in vitro experiments, including cell viability test, flow cytometric analysis, 
ELISA and western blotting, were conducted to validate the predicted results in 
an oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD)-stimulated H9c2 model.
RESULTS: A total of 96 compounds were characterized by UPLC-Q-TOF-MS, and 281 
overlapping targets were identified through pharmacoinformatic-based methods. 
Among these, ten critical compounds were determined as the core active 
components of DSD. The core targets associated with the development of CHD 
included STAT3, SRC, TP53, JUN, and AKT1. Notably, Dihydrotanshinone I and 
(+)-Epicatechin exhibited strong binding affinity towards STAT3. The potential 
mechanisms by which DSD modulates the pathological progression of CHD were 
predicted to involve inflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. Importantly, 
the cytoprotective effect of DSD against apoptosis was confirmed in 
OGD-stimulated H9c2 cells, as evidenced by the upregulation of Bcl-2 expression 
and downregulation of both Bax and cleaved caspase-3 expressions upon DSD 
treatment. Furthermore, DSD significantly enhanced the phosphorylated protein 
expressions of JAK2 and STAT3 compared to the OGD group, suggesting its 
potential role in modulating related signaling pathways.
CONCLUSIONS: The current study successfully fills the gap in the understanding 
of the chemical profiles of DSD, predicting its active components, potential 
targets, and molecular mechanisms in the treatment of CHD. These findings not 
only provide a valuable strategy but also robust data support for future 
investigations into DSD, thereby facilitating the identification of novel 
therapeutic targets for traditional Chinese medicines in the battle against CHD.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.118779
PMID: 39244177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


3. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2024 May 29;79:100386. doi: 10.1016/j.clinsp.2024.100386.
 eCollection 2024.

Effects of aerobic exercise on myocardial injury, NF-B expression, glucolipid 
metabolism and inflammatory factors in rats with coronary heart disease.

Zhang S(1), Yu G(2), Ping M(2), Du Q(2), Guo X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Wuhan Hanyang Hospital, Wuhan City, 
Hubei Province, China. Electronic address: zhaoshaowu@tom.com.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Wuhan Hanyang Hospital, Wuhan City, 
Hubei Province, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the influence of aerobic exercise on myocardial 
injury, NF-B expression, glucolipid metabolism and inflammatory factors in rats 
with Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) and explore the possible causative role.
METHODS: 45 Sprague Dawley® rats were randomized into model, control and 
experimental groups. A high-fat diet was adopted for generating a rat CHD model, 
and the experimental group was given a 4-week aerobic exercise intervention. ECG 
was utilized to evaluate the cardiac function of the rats; HE staining to 
evaluate the damage of myocardial tissue; TUNEL staining to evaluate 
cardiomyocyte apoptosis level; ELISA to assay the contents of inflammatory 
factors and glucolipid metabolism in cardiomyocytes; qPCR to assay IB- and NF-B 
mRNA expression; Western-blot to assay the apoptosis-related proteins and NF-B 
signaling pathway-related proteins expressions in myocardial tissue.
RESULTS: In contrast to the model group, aerobic exercise strongly improved the 
rat's cardiac function and glucolipid metabolism (p < 0.01), enhanced IL-10 
content, Bcl-2/Bax level as well as IB- protein and mRNA expression (p < 0.01), 
and reduced myocardial injury and cardiomyocyte apoptosis, the contents of IL-6, 
IL-1 and TNF-, Caspase 3 level, NF-B mRNA and protein expression and p-p38 and 
p-STAT3 expressions (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Aerobic exercise can not only effectively reduce myocardial injury, 
the release of inflammatory factors and NF-B expression in CHD rats, but also 
improve cardiac function and glucolipid metabolism. Its mechanism is likely to 
be related to the inhibition of the NF-B signaling pathway.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier España, S.L.U.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinsp.2024.100386
PMCID: PMC11177061
PMID: 38815541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.


4. Atherosclerosis. 2024 May;392:117507. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2024.117507. Epub 2024 Mar 11.

Gene expression profiling in elderly patients with familial hypercholesterolemia 
with and without coronary heart disease.

Melnes T(1), Bogsrud MP(2), Christensen JJ(1), Rundblad A(1), Narverud I(3), 
Retterstøl K(4), Aukrust P(5), Halvorsen B(5), Ulven SM(1), Holven KB(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University of 
Oslo, Norway.
(2)Unit for Cardiac and Cardiovascular Genetics, Department of Medical Genetics, 
Oslo University Hospital Ullevål, Norway; Norwegian National Advisory Unit on 
Familial Hypercholesterolemia, Department of Endocrinology, Morbid Obesity and 
Preventive Medicine, Oslo University Hospital Aker, Norway.
(3)Department of Nutrition, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University of 
Oslo, Norway; Norwegian National Advisory Unit on Familial Hypercholesterolemia, 
Department of Endocrinology, Morbid Obesity and Preventive Medicine, Oslo 
University Hospital Aker, Norway.
(4)Department of Nutrition, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University of 
Oslo, Norway; The Lipid Clinic, Department of Endocrinology, Morbid Obesity and 
Preventive Medicine, Oslo University Hospital Aker, Norway.
(5)Research Institute for Internal Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Norway; 
Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, Norway.
(6)Department of Nutrition, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University of 
Oslo, Norway; Norwegian National Advisory Unit on Familial Hypercholesterolemia, 
Department of Endocrinology, Morbid Obesity and Preventive Medicine, Oslo 
University Hospital Aker, Norway. Electronic address: 
kirsten.holven@medisin.uio.no.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Elderly familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) patients are at 
high risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) due to high cholesterol burden and 
late onset of effective cholesterol-lowering therapies. A subset of these 
individuals remains free from any CHD event, indicating the potential presence 
of protective factors. Identifying possible cardioprotective gene expression 
profiles could contribute to our understanding of CHD prevention and future 
preventive treatment. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate gene expression 
profiles in elderly event-free FH patients.
METHODS: Expression of 773 genes was analysed using the Nanostring Metabolic 
Pathways Panel, in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from FH patients 
≥65 years without CHD (FH event-free, n = 44) and with CHD (FH CHD, n = 39), and 
from healthy controls ≥70 years (n = 39).
RESULTS: None of the genes were differentially expressed between FH patients 
with and without CHD after adjusting for multiple testing. However, at nominal 
p < 0.05, we found 36 (5%) differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the two 
FH groups, mainly related to lipid metabolism (e.g. higher expression of ABCA1 
and ABCG1 in FH event-free) and immune responses (e.g. lower expression of STAT1 
and STAT3 in FH event-free). When comparing FH patients to controls, the 
event-free group had fewer DEGs than the CHD group; 147 (19%) and 219 (28%) 
DEGs, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Elderly event-free FH patients displayed a different PBMC gene 
expression profile compared to FH patients with CHD. Differences in gene 
expression compared to healthy controls were more pronounced in the CHD group, 
indicating a less atherogenic gene expression profile in event-free individuals. 
Overall, identification of cardioprotective factors could lead to future 
therapeutic targets.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2024.117507
PMID: 38663317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: MPB has received research grants 
and/or personal fees from Amgen and Sanofi, none of which are related to the 
content of this manuscript. JJC has received research grants and/or personal 
fees from Mills DA and Amgen, none of which are related to the content of this 
manuscript. AR has received personal fees from Rimfrost AS that are not related 
to the content of this manuscript. KR has received research grants and/or 
personal fees from Akcea, Amgen, Mills, Sanofi and Sunnovion, none of which are 
related to the content of this manuscript. KBH has received research grants 
and/or personal fees from Sanofi that are related to the content of this 
manuscript. The other authors have no financial relationships relevant to 
disclose.


5. Ann Transl Med. 2022 Dec;10(24):1327. doi: 10.21037/atm-22-5391.

To explore the active constituents of Sedum aizoon L in the treatment of 
coronary heart disease based on network pharmacology and molecular docking 
methodology.

Zhu BJ(#)(1), Nai GY(#)(2), Pan TX(1), Ma ZF(3), Huang ZD(1), Shi ZZ(1), Pang 
YH(1), Li N(1), Lin JX(1), Ling GM(1).

Author information:
(1)The Department of Chinese Medicine, The People's Hospital of Baise, Baise, 
China.
(2)Department of Hematology, The Affiliated Hospital of Youjiang Medical 
University for Nationalities, Baise, China.
(3)School of Dentistry, The Youjiang Medical University for Nationalities, 
Baise, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: There is a lack of effective drugs for the treatment of coronary 
heart disease (CHD). Sedum aizoon L (SL) has multiple effects, and there is no 
report on CHD in SL at present. The aim of this study is to explore the 
mechanisms of action of SL in the treatment of CHD based on network pharmacology 
and molecular docking technology.
METHODS: The targets and active ingredients of SL were screened using the 
Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) database, and 
CHD-related targets were obtained by searching GeneCards and DisGeNet databases. 
The intersection of LS active ingredient targets and CHD targets was used to 
construct a "drug-ingredient-disease-target" network using the Cytoscape 
software. The STRING database was used to construct a protein-protein 
interaction (PPI) network, and Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of 
Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses were performed. Key targets and core active 
ingredients were selected and molecular docking was performed using the AutoDock 
software.
RESULTS: According to the predicted results, a total of 134 corresponding target 
genes for LS, 12 active components, 1,704 CHD-related targets, and 52 
intersecting targets were obtained. GO function and KEGG pathway analysis showed 
that the key targets were involved with signal transducer and activator of 
transcription 3 (STAT3), tumor protein p53 (TP53), and vascular endothelial 
growth factor A (VEGFA). The molecular docking results showed that the key 
targets bound to the important active ingredients in a stable conformation. The 
core active ingredients of LS in the treatment of CHD were determined to be 
ursolic acid, myricetin, and beta-sitosterol.
CONCLUSIONS: SL may act on targets such as STAT3, TP53, and VEGFA through tumor 
necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathway, interleukin 17A (IL-17A) signaling 
pathway, AGE-RAGE signaling pathway in diabetic complications, and other related 
pathways, thereby playing a role in preventing and treating CHD.

2022 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/atm-22-5391
PMCID: PMC9843314
PMID: 36660641

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://atm.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/atm-22-5391/coif). The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.

=== Gene: CD8A ===
No results found.


=== Gene: TNF ===
1. J Cardiothorac Surg. 2025 Jul 14;20(1):295. doi: 10.1186/s13019-025-03449-z.

Nicorandil in improving angina pectoris and vascular endothelial function in 
elderly diabetes mellitus patients with coronary heart disease.

Gao L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, Zhengzhou Health College, Zhengzhou, 450000, 
China. gaoling821130@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the clinical efficacy of nicorandil in treating elderly 
angina pectoris with diabetes mellitus (DM) and coronary heart disease (CHD), 
and the effect on improving vascular endothelial function (VEF).
METHODS: 110 elderly diabetic patients with CHD and angina pectoris who were 
treated in our hospital from April 2019 to March 2022 were chose as samples. All 
the subjects were distributed into 2 groups, namely A and B, and 55 people in 
each. B group were treated with secondary preventive drugs for CHD, and the A 
group were treated with nicorandil and secondary preventive drugs for CHD. After 
one month, the clinical efficacy, prethrombotic state, VEF, inflammatory factor 
levels, cardiac function were compared.
RESULTS: The bg, DD, PAI-1, vWF, ET-1, TNF-α and hs-CRP in A group after the 
treatment were below those in B (P < 0.05), t-PA, FMD, The NO content was 
significantly exceeded that of the B group. The LVEF and RHI indexes in A were 
exceed the data in B (P < 0.05), and the LVEDD and LVPWd were below the data in 
B (P < 0.05). The effective rate of clinical treatment in A was significantly 
exceed B's data.
CONCLUSION: Nicorandil can significantly improve angina pectoris in elderly 
patients with DM and CHD.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13019-025-03449-z
PMID: 40653459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study was approved by the local ethics committee of the 
Zhengzhou Shuqing Medical College. All experiments were performed in accordance 
with relevant guidelines and regulations such as the Declaration of Helsinki and 
the patients signed the informed consent form and agreed to be published. 
Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests. Conflict of interest: None. Clinical trial 
number: Not applicable.


2. Clin Exp Hypertens. 2025 Dec;47(1):2524105. doi:
10.1080/10641963.2025.2524105.  Epub 2025 Jul 1.

Changes and significance of high-density lipoprotein A-I, A-II, and serum 
amyloid levels in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
complicated by coronary heart disease.

Tian Y(1)(2), Liu H(2)(3), Wang Y(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Fenyang Hospital, The Affiliated Hospital of 
Shanxi Medical University, Fenyang, China.
(2)Fenyang College of Shanxi Medical University, Fenyang, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Fenyang Hospital of 
Shanxi Province, Fenyang, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the significance of blood lipids and pro-inflammatory 
in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients in stable and acute 
exacerbations (AECOPD) with or without coronary heart disease (CAD).
METHODS: One hundred and sixty COPD patients were divided into four groups based 
on whether COPD was in the acute or stable phase and whether comorbid CAD: 
AECOPD without CAD group, AECOPD with CAD group, stable COPD without CAD group, 
and stable COPD with CAD group.
RESULTS: The levels of ApoA-I and ApoA-II in the AECOPD group and AECOPD with 
CAD group were significantly lower than in the stable COPD group, stable COPD 
with CAD group, and control group. The levels of SAA, TNF-α, and IL-6 was 
significantly higher in AECOPD group with CAD or without CAD compared with 
control group. SAA levels were significantly increased in stable COPD with CAD 
group compared with control group.
CONCLUSION: The levels of ApoA-I and ApoA-II in the AECOPD without CAD group and 
AECOPD with CAD group were significantly lower than those in the stable COPD 
group, stable COPD with CAD group. The change of pro-inflammatory factor TNF-α 
and IL-6 levels would be an important reason. The SAA level was significantly 
increased in the AECOPD without CAD group and AECOPD with CAD group, which 
indicated that the changes in HDL-C components in this group may be an important 
reason for promoting the progress of CAD.

DOI: 10.1080/10641963.2025.2524105
PMID: 40590531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Biomedicines. 2025 Jun 6;13(6):1392. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines13061392.

Immunological Markers of Cardiovascular Pathology in Older Patients.

Bugibayeva A(1), Kurmanova A(1), Abzaliyev K(1), Abzaliyeva S(1), Kurmanova 
G(1), Sundetova D(1), Abdykassymova M(1), Bitemirova R(1), Sagalbayeva U(1), 
Absatarova K(1), Suleimenova M(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Healthcare, Al-Farabi Kazakh National University, 
Almaty 050040, Kazakhstan.
(2)Faculty of Information Technology, Al-Farabi Kazakh National University, 
Almaty 050040, Kazakhstan.

Background: The aging process is accompanied by changes in the immunological 
status of a person. Immunosenescence is considered a significant cause of the 
development of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) in elderly people. However, to 
date, the relationship between immune/inflammatory processes and diseases 
associated with age is considered quite complex and is not fully understood. 
Immunophenotyping and the intracellular production of cytokines involved in the 
processes of inflammatory aging will allow us to identify biomarkers that are 
associated with cardiovascular diseases in the elderly. Objectives: To identify 
immunological markers associated with the process of inflammatory aging in older 
individuals with cardiovascular diseases. Methods: CD-phenotyping and 
intracellular cytokine analysis of peripheral blood using the flow cytometry 
method were conducted in 52 people over 60 years of age (group 1 had CVD and 
group 2 did not). Blood samples were stained with monoclonal antibodies (mAb) 
using Becton Dickinson (BD) reagents for the staining and binding of surface 
receptors CD4+, CD8+, CD14+, CD19+, CD16+, CD56+, CD59+, CD95+, and HLA DR+ and 
intracellular receptors TNF, IL-10, GM-CSF, VEGFR-2, IGF, and perforin. In 
addition, the following parameters were studied: questionnaire data (gender, 
age, alcohol consumption, smoking, physical activity, and marital status), 
clinical data (blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), body mass index (BMI)), 
comorbid conditions, and cardiovascular diseases (coronary heart disease (CHD), 
chronic heart failure (CHF), arterial hypertension (AH), previous myocardial 
infarction (PICS), diabetes mellitus (DM), atrial fibrillation (AF), and 
stroke). Results: The older patients with cardiovascular pathology had high 
levels of monocytes CD14+ (p = 0.014), low levels of CD8+ lymphocytes (p = 
0.046), and low intracellular production of GM-CSF (p = 0.013) compared to the 
older people without CVD. Conclusions: The revealed differences in the 
expression of CD14+ monocytes indicate their role in the development of 
cardiovascular pathology associated with age-related changes. A decrease in 
cytotoxic CD8+ lymphocytes and intracellular GM-CSF production leads to an 
increased risk of developing cardiovascular diseases in older individuals. These 
observed changes with age will not only expand existing knowledge about the 
aging of the regulatory link of the immune system but also help to obtain data 
to predict CVD in older people. Thus, the obtained results support the use of 
these immunological markers to identify the risk of circulatory disease and a 
personalized approach in geriatric practice.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines13061392
PMCID: PMC12189633
PMID: 40564110

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analysis, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision 
to publish the results.


4. Biomed Chromatogr. 2025 Jul;39(7):e70120. doi: 10.1002/bmc.70120.

Study on the Efficacy and Mechanism of Metabolomics and Bioinformatics on the 
Treatment of Qi Stagnation and Blood Stasis Coronary Heart Disease by Danshen 
Injection.

Wu L(1), Feng M(2), Peng Y(2), Xiang Y(1), Liu R(2), Liu T(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Chengdu University, Chengdu, China.
(2)Faculty of Food and Biological Engineering, Chengdu University, Chengdu, 
China.
(3)Institute of Technology Transfer, Chengdu University, Chengdu, China.

This study, grounded in traditional Chinese medicine theory, established a 
QZXY-CHD model to investigate DSI's impact on vascular endothelial function, 
inflammatory factors, oxidative stress, and myocardial energy metabolism from a 
holistic perspective. The results demonstrated that DSI significantly reduced 
serum levels of ET-1, MPO, IL-1β, TNF-α, MDA, LDH, and CK-MB, while increasing 
NO and SOD levels, indicating DSI's ability to inhibit inflammation, mitigate 
oxidative stress, and protect endothelial and organ functions. Using 
bioinformatics, we identified differentially expressed genes and metabolic 
pathways in coronary heart disease and screened diagnostic biomarkers (JDP2, 
ZFP36, TRAF3IP3, MRPS30, CLEC4D). Non-targeted metabolomics revealed changes in 
endogenous metabolites, identifying 73 differential metabolites between the 
control (Con) and model (Mod) groups, and 75 between the Mod and DSI groups, 
with 21 key overlapping metabolites. Integrated bioinformatics and metabolomics 
analysis highlighted critical metabolites such as arachidonic acid, leukotriene 
B4, linoleic acid, sucrose, D-glucose, pyroglutamic acid, and palmitic acid, as 
well as seven key metabolic pathways including arachidonic acid metabolism, 
linoleic acid metabolism, and galactose metabolism. This combined analysis 
provides biological evidence for identifying biomarkers of CHD host 
susceptibility and elucidates the mechanisms by which DSI ameliorates QZXY-CHD, 
offering new insights for diagnosis and disease management.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bmc.70120
PMID: 40420461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Open Life Sci. 2025 May 20;20(1):20221040. doi: 10.1515/biol-2022-1040. 
eCollection 2025.

Effects of tiered cardiac rehabilitation on CRP, TNF-α, and physical endurance 
in older adults with coronary heart disease.

Luo C(1), Li L(2), Hou L(1), Shi F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, The Fourth Hospital of Changsha, 
Changsha, 410219, China.
(2)Ward of Neurology, The Fourth Hospital of Changsha, Changsha, 410006, China.

Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a highly prevalent disease in the elderly 
population, with atherosclerosis as its pathology, which can also be viewed as a 
chronic inflammatory response of the organism. Regular moderate-intensity 
exercise can direct the immune response toward an anti-inflammatory state, which 
is beneficial for improving the health and exercise tolerance. In cardiac 
rehabilitation, attention to the management of inflammatory factors as well as 
the improvement of exercise endurance is beneficial for the rehabilitation of 
elderly patients with coronary artery disease. This study investigates the 
impact of tiered cardiac rehabilitation programs on levels of C-reactive protein 
(CRP), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), and the capacity for physical 
exertion in older CHD patients. From March 2020 to April 2022, 94 elderly 
patients with CHD visiting our institution were recruited and randomly allocated 
into either a control group or an observation group, each comprising 47 
participants. The standard care group participated in traditional rehabilitation 
exercises, whereas the experimental group received customized, tiered, cardiac 
rehabilitation interventions. We assessed the variations in CRP and tumor 
necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) levels, along with exercise capacity, before and 
after treatment in both groups. The result shows that significant reductions in 
CRP and TNF-α levels were seen in the experimental group after 4 and 12 weeks, 
compared to the standard care group. Analysis showed clear trends in CRP and 
TNF-α changes over the interventions, with the experimental group showing better 
results. CRP levels decreased consistently, while TNF-α levels stayed stable. 
The experimental group also showed improvements in physical endurance measures 
compared to the control group. Interleukin 6 (IL-6) and fibrinogen (Fib) in the 
observation group decreased compared with the control group (P < 0.01). After 12 
weeks of treatment, CRP and TNF-α showed significant negative correlation with 
exercise endurance index - 6 min walking test (6 MWT), anaerobic threshold (AT), 
maximum oxygen consumption (VO2max), and exercise duration (ED); significant 
positive correlation between cardiac rehabilitation grade and exercise endurance 
index (6 MWT, AT, VO2max and ED); and both groups experienced cardiovascular 
adverse events and exercise muscle injury. The analysis shows that the graded 
nursing of cardiac rehabilitation can effectively reduce the levels of CRP, 
TNF-α, IL-6, and Fib in elderly patients with CHD and significantly improve the 
exercise endurance of patients with good safety.

© 2025 the author(s), published by De Gruyter.

DOI: 10.1515/biol-2022-1040
PMCID: PMC12103183
PMID: 40417004

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: Authors state no conflict 
of interest.

=== Gene: CCR5 ===
1. Cardiovasc Ther. 2022 Aug 9;2022:9034996. doi: 10.1155/2022/9034996.
eCollection  2022.

Bioinformatics and System Biological Approaches for the Identification of 
Genetic Risk Factors in the Progression of Cardiovascular Disease.

Barua JD(1), Omit SBS(2), Rana HK(3), Podder NK(4)(5), Chowdhury UN(6), Rahman 
MH(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, BGC Trust University Bangladesh, Chattogram, 
Bangladesh.
(2)Department of Computer Science and Telecommunication Engineering, Noakhali 
Science and Technology University, Noakhali, Bangladesh.
(3)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Green University of 
Bangladesh, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(4)Bangladesh Institute of Governance and Management (BIGM), Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(5)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Khulna University of 
Engineering & Technology, Khulna, Bangladesh.
(6)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Rajshahi, 
Rajshahi, Bangladesh.
(7)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Islamic University, Kushtia 
7003, Bangladesh.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the combination of coronary heart 
disease, myocardial infarction, rheumatic heart disease, and peripheral vascular 
disease of the heart and blood vessels. It is one of the leading deadly diseases 
that causes one-third of the deaths yearly in the globe. Additionally, the risk 
factors associated with it make the situation more complex for cardiovascular 
patients, which lead them towards mortality, but the genetic association between 
CVD and its risk factors is not clearly explored in the global literature. We 
addressed this issue and explored the linkage between CVD and its risk factors.
METHODS: We developed an analytical approach to reveal the risk factors and 
their linkages with CVD. We used GEO microarray datasets for the CVD and other 
risk factors in this study. We performed several analyses including gene 
expression analysis, diseasome analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) 
analysis, and pathway analysis for discovering the relationship between CVD and 
its risk factors. We also examined the validation of our study using gold 
benchmark databases OMIM, dbGAP, and DisGeNET.
RESULTS: We observed that the number of 32, 17, 53, 70, and 89 differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) is overlapped between CVD and its risk factors of 
hypertension (HTN), type 2 diabetes (T2D), hypercholesterolemia (HCL), obesity, 
and aging, respectively. We identified 10 major hub proteins (FPR2, TNF, CXCL8, 
CXCL1, IL1B, VEGFA, CYBB, PTGS2, ITGAX, and CCR5), 12 significant functional 
pathways, and 11 gene ontological pathways that are associated with CVD. We also 
found the connection of CVD with its risk factors in the gold benchmark 
databases. Our experimental outcomes indicate a strong association of CVD with 
its risk factors of HTN, T2D, HCL, obesity, and aging.
CONCLUSIONS: Our computational approach explored the genetic association of CVD 
with its risk factors by identifying the significant DEGs, hub proteins, and 
signaling and ontological pathways. The outcomes of this study may be further 
used in the lab-based analysis for developing the effective treatment strategies 
of CVD.

Copyright © 2022 Joy Dip Barua et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2022/9034996
PMCID: PMC9381297
PMID: 36035865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


2. PLoS One. 2018 May 29;13(5):e0197751. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197751. 
eCollection 2018.

Elevated levels of 2-arachidonoylglycerol promote atherogenesis in ApoE-/- mice.

Jehle J(1), Schöne B(1), Bagheri S(1), Avraamidou E(1), Danisch M(1), Frank 
I(1), Pfeifer P(1), Bindila L(2), Lutz B(2), Lütjohann D(3), Zimmer A(4), 
Nickenig G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine II Cardiology, Pneumology, Angiology, 
University Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(2)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, University Medical Center of the 
Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Mainz, Germany.
(3)Insitute for Clinical Chemistry and Clinical Pharmacology, University 
Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(4)Department of Molecular Psychiatry, University Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The endocannabinoid (eCB) 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) is a known 
modulator of inflammation and ligand to both, pro-inflammatory cannabinoid 
receptor 1 (CB1) and anti-inflammatory CB2. While the role of both receptors in 
atherogenesis has been studied extensively, the significance of 2-AG for 
atherogenesis is less well characterized.
METHODS: The impact of 2-AG on atherogenesis was studied in two treatment groups 
of ApoE-/- mice. One group received the monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL)-inhibitor 
JZL184 [5 mg/kg i.p.], which impairs 2-AG degradation and thus causes elevated 
2-AG levels, the other group received vehicle for four weeks. Simultaneously, 
both groups were fed a high-cholesterol diet. The atherosclerotic plaque burden 
was assessed in frozen sections through the aortic sinus following oil red O 
staining and infiltrating macrophages were detected by immunofluorescence 
targeting CD68. In vitro, the effect of 2-AG on B6MCL macrophage migration was 
assessed by Boyden chamber experiments. Transcription of adhesion molecules and 
chemokine receptors in macrophages was assessed by qPCR.
RESULTS: As expected, application of the MAGL-inhibitor JZL184 resulted in a 
significant increase in 2-AG levels in vascular tissue (98.2 ± 16.1 nmol/g vs. 
27.3 ± 4.5 nmol/g; n = 14-16; p < 0.001). ApoE-/- mice with elevated 2-AG levels 
displayed a significantly increased plaque burden compared to vehicle treated 
controls (0.44 ± 0.03 vs. 0.31 ± 0.04; n = 14; p = 0.0117). This was accompanied 
by a significant increase in infiltrating macrophages within the atherosclerotic 
vessel wall (0.33 ± 0.02 vs. 0.27 ± 0.01; n = 13-14; p = 0.0076). While there 
was no alteration to the white blood counts of JZL184-treated animals, 2-AG 
enhanced macrophage migration in vitro by 1.8 ± 0.2 -fold (n = 4-6; p = 0.0393) 
compared to vehicle, which was completely abolished by co-administration of 
either CB1- or CB2-receptor-antagonists. qPCR analyses of 2-AG-stimulated 
macrophages showed an enhanced transcription of the chemokine CCL5 (1.59 ± 0.23 
-fold; n = 5-6; p = 0.0589) and its corresponding receptors CCR1 (2.04 ± 0.46 
-fold; n = 10-11; p = 0.0472) and CCR5 (2.45 ± 0.62 -fold; n = 5-6; p = 0.0554).
CONCLUSION: Taken together, elevated 2-AG levels appear to promote atherogenesis 
in vivo. Our data suggest that 2-AG promotes macrophage migration, possibly by 
the CCL5-CCR5/CCR1 axis, and thereby contributes to vascular inflammation. Thus, 
decreasing vascular 2-AG levels might represent a promising therapeutic strategy 
in patients suffering from atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197751
PMCID: PMC5973571
PMID: 29813086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


3. Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2016 Jun;9(3):250-8. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCGENETICS.115.001374. Epub 2016 Mar 24.

Common and Rare Genetic Variation in CCR2, CCR5, or CX3CR1 and Risk of 
Atherosclerotic Coronary Heart Disease and Glucometabolic Traits.

Golbus JR(1), Stitziel NO(2), Zhao W(2), Xue C(2), Farrall M(2), McPherson R(2), 
Erdmann J(2), Deloukas P(2), Watkins H(2), Schunkert H(2), Samani NJ(2), 
Saleheen D(2), Kathiresan S(2), Reilly MP(1); CARDIoGRAMplusC4D, Myocardial 
Infarction Genetics (MIGen), Exome Sequencing Project and Early-Onset Myocardial 
Infarction (ESP EOMI), and the Pakistan Risk of Myocardial Infarction Study 
(PROMIS) Consortia*.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Medicine, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia (J.R.G.); Cardiovascular Division, Department of Medicine (N.O.S.), 
Department of Genetics and McDonnell Genome Institute (N.O.S.), Washington 
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO; Department of Biostatistics and 
Epidemiology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia (W.Z., C.X., D.S.); Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, The 
Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford, United 
Kingdom (M.F., H.W.); Division of Cardiology, University of Ottawa Heart 
Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (R.M.); Medizinische Klinik II, University of 
Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany (J.E.); William Harvey Research Institute, Barts & The 
London School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University London, London, 
United Kingdom (P.D.); Deutsches Herzzentrum München, Technische Universität 
München, DZHK, Munich Heart Alliance, München, Germany (H.S.); Department of 
Cardiovascular Sciences, University of Leicester & NIHR Leicester Cardiovascular 
Biomedical Research Unit, Glenfield Hospital, Leicester, United Kingdom 
(N.J.S.); Center for Human Genetic Research, Cardiovascular Research Center, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston (S.K.); Department of Medicine, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA (S.K.); Program in Medical and Population Genetics, 
Broad Institute, Cambridge, MA (S.K.); and Department of Medicine, Columbia 
University, New York, NY (M.P.R.). jessica.golbus@uphs.upenn.edu 
mpr2144@cumc.columbia.edu.
(2)From the Department of Medicine, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia (J.R.G.); Cardiovascular Division, Department of Medicine (N.O.S.), 
Department of Genetics and McDonnell Genome Institute (N.O.S.), Washington 
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO; Department of Biostatistics and 
Epidemiology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia (W.Z., C.X., D.S.); Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, The 
Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford, United 
Kingdom (M.F., H.W.); Division of Cardiology, University of Ottawa Heart 
Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada (R.M.); Medizinische Klinik II, University of 
Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany (J.E.); William Harvey Research Institute, Barts & The 
London School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University London, London, 
United Kingdom (P.D.); Deutsches Herzzentrum München, Technische Universität 
München, DZHK, Munich Heart Alliance, München, Germany (H.S.); Department of 
Cardiovascular Sciences, University of Leicester & NIHR Leicester Cardiovascular 
Biomedical Research Unit, Glenfield Hospital, Leicester, United Kingdom 
(N.J.S.); Center for Human Genetic Research, Cardiovascular Research Center, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston (S.K.); Department of Medicine, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA (S.K.); Program in Medical and Population Genetics, 
Broad Institute, Cambridge, MA (S.K.); and Department of Medicine, Columbia 
University, New York, NY (M.P.R.).

BACKGROUND: The chemokine receptors CCR2, CCR5, and CX3CR1 coordinate monocyte 
trafficking in homeostatic and inflammatory states. Multiple small human genetic 
studies have variably linked single nucleotide polymorphisms in these genes to 
cardiometabolic disease. We interrogated genome-wide association, exome 
sequencing, and exome array genotyping studies to ascertain the relationship 
between variation in these genes and coronary artery disease (CAD), myocardial 
infarction (MI), and glucometabolic traits.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We interrogated the CARDIoGRAMplusC4D (Coronary ARtery 
DIsease Genome wide Replication and Meta-analysis [CARDIoGRAM] plus The Coronary 
Artery Disease [C4D] Genetics) (60 801 cases and 123 504 controls), the MIGen 
and CARDIoGRAM Exome consortia (42 335 cases and 78 240 controls), and Exome 
Sequencing Project and Early-Onset Myocardial Infarction (ESP EOMI; 4703 cases 
and 5090 controls) data sets to ascertain the relationship between common, low 
frequency, and rare variation in CCR2, CCR5, or CX3CR1 with CAD and MI. We did 
not identify any variant associated with CAD or MI. We then explored common and 
low-frequency variation in South Asians through Pakistan Risk of Myocardial 
Infarction Study (PROMIS; 9058 cases and 8379 controls), identifying 6 variants 
associated with MI including CX3CR1 V249I. Finally, reanalysis of the European 
HapMap imputed Diabetes Genetics Replication and Meta-Analysis (DIAGRAM), Global 
Lipids Genetics Consortium (GLGC), Genetic Investigation of Anthropometric 
Traits (GIANT), and Meta-Analysis of Glucose and Insulin-related Traits 
Consortium (MAGIC) data sets revealed no association with glucometabolic traits 
although 3 single nucleotide polymorphisms in PROMIS were associated with type 
II diabetes mellitus.
CONCLUSIONS: No chemokine receptor variant was associated with CAD, MI, or 
glucometabolic traits in large European ancestry cohorts. In a South Asian 
cohort, we identified single nucleotide polymorphism associations with MI and 
type II diabetes mellitus but these did not meet significance in cohorts of 
European ancestry. These findings suggest the need for larger studies in South 
Asians but exclude clinically meaningful associations with CAD and 
glucometabolic traits in Europeans.

© 2016 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCGENETICS.115.001374
PMCID: PMC5015681
PMID: 27013693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Int AIDS Soc. 2014 Nov 2;17(4 Suppl 3):19726. doi: 10.7448/IAS.17.4.19726. 
eCollection 2014.

Improvement of endothelial function after switching previously treated 
HIV-infected patients to an NRTI-sparing bitherapy with maraviroc.

Bernal E(1), Verdú JM(1), Vera F(2), Martinez O(2), Bravo J(3), Galera C(4), 
Muñoz A(1), Garcia E(1), Serrano J(1), Perez A(1), Vera C(1), Marín I(5), Cano 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Infectious Disease Unit, Reina Sofia Hospital, Murcia, Spain.
(2)Infectious Disease Unit, Santa Lucia, Cartagena, Spain.
(3)Infectious Disease Unit, Morales Meseguer, Murcia, Spain.
(4)Infectious Disease Unit, Virgen de la Arrixaca, Murcia, Spain.
(5)Cardiology, Reina Sofia Hospital, Murcia, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) is associated 
with endothelial dysfunction and proinflammatory effects. Maraviroc (MVC) is an 
antagonist of CCR5 receptor. CCR5 is the receptor of RANTES (Regulated on 
Activation, Normal T Cell Expressed and Secreted), a mediator of chronic 
inflammation and endothelial function. Our aim was to evaluate the maintenance 
of viral suppression and improvement of endothelial function in virologically 
suppressed HIV-infected patients switched to an NRTI-sparing combined 
antiretroviral therapy (cART) with MVC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This observational, non-interventional, multicenter study 
was performed at the Infectious Diseases Service of Santa Lucia, Morales 
Meseguer, Virgen de la Arrixaca and Reina Sofía University Hospital (Murcia, 
Spain). The selection criteria were to be asymptomatic on a regimen with 
undetectable viral load (<50 HIV-RNA copies/mL) for at least six months, no 
previous treatment with R5 antagonists, no evidence of previous protease 
inhibitor (PI) failure and available R5 tropism test. Twenty-one HIV-infected 
patients were selected after the treatment regimen was changed to Maraviroc 150 
mg/once daily plus ritonavir-boosted PI therapy. Endothelial function was 
prospectively evaluated through flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) of the brachial 
artery at baseline and at weeks 24.
RESULTS: We included 21 patients on treatment with PI in combination with 2 
NRTI. The mean cART exposition was 133±68.9 months. Fourteen (66.6%) were males, 
aged 49±9 years, 15 (71.4%) smokers, 4 (19.04%) family history of coronary heart 
disease, 1 (5.76%) type 2 diabetes and 3 (14.28%) hypertensive, mean total 
cholesterol was 185.5±35 mg/dL, c-LDL 100.2±37 mg/dL, tryglicerides 170.42±92.03 
mg/dL, cHDL 52.6±15.5 mg/dL, CD4 779,5±383.28 cells/mL, nadir CD4 187,96±96 
cells/mL. After 24 weeks of follow-up of a switch to an NRTI-sparing regimen, 
95.2% of HIV-patients on viral suppressive cART maintained viral suppression and 
CD4+ T cell count. This cART switch improve endothelial function in patients 
with lower baseline FMD levels after 24 weeks (baseline FMD -1.19±4.84 % to 24 
weeks FMD 11.32±7.27%; p=0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study show that a switch to an NRTI-sparing 
bi-therapy with MVC improves endothelial function and maintained the 
immune-virologic efficacy. This regimen emphasizes the needs for further 
clinical studies to associate these achievements with the incidence of 
non-AIDS-defining illnesses.

DOI: 10.7448/IAS.17.4.19726
PMCID: PMC4225394
PMID: 25397472


5. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2012 Jan;11(1):161-74. doi:
10.1517/14740338.2012.640670.  Epub 2011 Nov 26.

Drug safety evaluation of maraviroc for the treatment of HIV infection.

Wasmuth JC(1), Rockstroh JK, Hardy WD.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinikum Bonn, Medical Department I, Sigmund-Freud-Str. 25, 53105 
Bonn, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Maraviroc is the only C-chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) antagonist 
approved for the treatment of infection with HIV. This article reviews the 
safety and efficacy of maraviroc in the treatment of HIV infection.
AREAS COVERED: The PubMed database was searched using the keywords 'maraviroc' 
and 'HIV'. In addition, conference proceedings from CROI, IAS and EACS meetings 
were searched for maraviroc clinical trials. The PubMed search revealed one 
Phase IIb - III clinical trial in treatment-naive HIV(+) patients (MERIT) and 
three Phase IIb - III randomized clinical trials (RCTs) in treatment-experienced 
patients (MOTIVATE 1 and 2, A4001029). All RCTs showed an excellent safety 
profile for maraviroc in the treatment of HIV-1 infection. However, long-term (> 
3 years) safety data generated on maraviroc therapy are still scarce. Based on 
the findings from RCTs so far, no relevant toxicities and co-morbidities such as 
coronary heart disease or hepatotoxicity have been described. The overall CD4(+) 
cell count increase resulting from a maraviroc-containing regimen appears to be 
higher than those seen with other antiretroviral regimens. However, the 
significance remains controversial. To date, maraviroc has shown a potent and 
durable virological efficacy profile for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. The 
only use of maraviroc depends on pretreatment testing for CCR5 tropism.
EXPERT OPINION: Maraviroc is a generally safe and well-tolerated medication for 
the treatment of HIV-1 infection with a unique mechanism of action. Long-term 
(i.e., > 5 years) risks are not known and have to be carefully monitored.

DOI: 10.1517/14740338.2012.640670
PMID: 22118500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Gene: IRF7 ===
1. Circulation. 2018 Nov 13;138(20):2263-2273. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.117.032790.

B Cell-Activating Factor Neutralization Aggravates Atherosclerosis.

Tsiantoulas D(1)(2), Sage AP(3), Göderle L(1)(2), Ozsvar-Kozma M(1)(2), Murphy 
D(3), Porsch F(1)(2), Pasterkamp G(4), Menche J(2), Schneider P(5), Mallat 
Z(3)(6), Binder CJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Medical University of Vienna (D.T., L.G., 
M.O.-K., F.P., C.J.B.).
(2)CeMM Research Center for Molecular Medicine of the Austrian Academy of 
Sciences (D.T., L.G., M.O.-K., F.P., J.M., C.J.B.).
(3)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Cambridge, UK (A.P.S., 
D.M., Z.M.).
(4)University Medical Center Utrecht, Netherlands (G.P.).
(5)Department of Biochemistry, University of Lausanne, Epalinges, Switzerland 
(P.S.).
(6)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, Paris 
Cardiovascular Research Center (PARCC), Paris, France (Z.M.).

BACKGROUND: Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (heart attacks and strokes) 
is the major cause of death globally and is caused by the buildup of a plaque in 
the arterial wall. Genomic data showed that the B cell-activating factor (BAFF) 
receptor pathway, which is specifically essential for the survival of 
conventional B lymphocytes (B-2 cells), is a key driver of coronary heart 
disease. Deletion or antibody-mediated blockade of BAFF receptor ablates B-2 
cells and decreases experimental atherosclerosis. Anti-BAFF immunotherapy is 
approved for treatment of autoimmune systemic lupus erythematosus, and can 
therefore be expected to limit their associated cardiovascular risk. However, 
direct effects of anti-BAFF immunotherapy on atherosclerosis remain unknown.
METHODS: To investigate the effect of BAFF neutralization in atherosclerosis, 
the authors treated Apoe-/- and Ldlr-/- mice with a well-characterized blocking 
anti-BAFF antibody. Moreover, to investigate the mechanism by which BAFF impacts 
atherosclerosis, the authors studied atherosclerosis-prone mice that lack the 
alternative receptor for BAFF: transmembrane activator and calcium modulator and 
cyclophilin ligand interactor.
RESULTS: The authors demonstrate here that anti-BAFF antibody treatment 
increased atherosclerosis in mice, despite efficient depletion of mature B-2 
cells, suggesting a unique mechanism of action. Indeed, myeloid cell-specific 
deletion of transmembrane activator and calcium modulator and cyclophilin ligand 
interactor also results in increased atherosclerosis, while B cell-specific 
transmembrane activator and calcium modulator and cyclophilin ligand interactor 
deletion had no effect. Mechanistically, BAFF-transmembrane activator and 
calcium modulator and cyclophilin ligand interactor signaling represses 
macrophage IRF7-dependent (but not NF-κB-dependent) Toll-like receptor 9 
responses including proatherogenic CXCL10 production.
CONCLUSIONS: These data identify a novel B cell-independent anti-inflammatory 
role for BAFF in atherosclerosis and may have important clinical implications.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.117.032790
PMCID: PMC6181204
PMID: 29858401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

=== Gene: IL6 ===
1. Clin Exp Hypertens. 2025 Dec;47(1):2524105. doi:
10.1080/10641963.2025.2524105.  Epub 2025 Jul 1.

Changes and significance of high-density lipoprotein A-I, A-II, and serum 
amyloid levels in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
complicated by coronary heart disease.

Tian Y(1)(2), Liu H(2)(3), Wang Y(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Fenyang Hospital, The Affiliated Hospital of 
Shanxi Medical University, Fenyang, China.
(2)Fenyang College of Shanxi Medical University, Fenyang, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Fenyang Hospital of 
Shanxi Province, Fenyang, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the significance of blood lipids and pro-inflammatory 
in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients in stable and acute 
exacerbations (AECOPD) with or without coronary heart disease (CAD).
METHODS: One hundred and sixty COPD patients were divided into four groups based 
on whether COPD was in the acute or stable phase and whether comorbid CAD: 
AECOPD without CAD group, AECOPD with CAD group, stable COPD without CAD group, 
and stable COPD with CAD group.
RESULTS: The levels of ApoA-I and ApoA-II in the AECOPD group and AECOPD with 
CAD group were significantly lower than in the stable COPD group, stable COPD 
with CAD group, and control group. The levels of SAA, TNF-α, and IL-6 was 
significantly higher in AECOPD group with CAD or without CAD compared with 
control group. SAA levels were significantly increased in stable COPD with CAD 
group compared with control group.
CONCLUSION: The levels of ApoA-I and ApoA-II in the AECOPD without CAD group and 
AECOPD with CAD group were significantly lower than those in the stable COPD 
group, stable COPD with CAD group. The change of pro-inflammatory factor TNF-α 
and IL-6 levels would be an important reason. The SAA level was significantly 
increased in the AECOPD without CAD group and AECOPD with CAD group, which 
indicated that the changes in HDL-C components in this group may be an important 
reason for promoting the progress of CAD.

DOI: 10.1080/10641963.2025.2524105
PMID: 40590531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Diagnostics (Basel). 2025 May 11;15(10):1211. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics15101211.

Integrating the Interleukins in the Biomarker Panel for the Diagnosis and 
Prognosis of Patients with Acute Coronary Syndromes: Unraveling a Multifaceted 
Conundrum.

Timpau AS(1), Miftode EG(2), Costache-Enache II(1), Petris AO(1), Miftode IL(2), 
Mitu I(3), Miftode RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I (Cardiology), Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Medicine and Pharmacy "Grigore T. Popa", 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy "Grigore T. Popa", 700115 Iasi, Romania.
(3)Department of Morpho-Functional Sciences II, University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy "Grigore T. Popa", 700115 Iasi, Romania.

Background and Objectives: Despite the latest advancements in interventional 
procedures and pharmacological therapy, the incidence of heart failure and death 
rate following an acute myocardial remain unacceptably high. This study was 
designed in response to the limited and conflicting literature data regarding 
the diagnostic and prognostic role of modern inflammatory biomarkers in patients 
with coronary artery disease. Materials and Methods: We conducted a 
case-control, prospective observational study. A total of 145 patients were 
analyzed, of whom 105 patients had an acute coronary syndrome diagnosis and 
represented the study group, while 40 patients with a chronic coronary syndrome 
diagnosis represented the control group. This study investigates the diagnostic 
and prognostic role of the interleukin 1β (IL-1β), interleukin 6 (IL-6), 
interleukin 10 (IL-10), Growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15), and classic 
biomarkers in patients with ischemic coronary heart disease. Results: IL-1β 
exhibited a prognostic role, being significantly correlated with a left 
ventricular ejection fraction below 30%. GDF-15 plays a dual role, as a 
cardio-inflammatory biomarker, being significantly correlated with both 
N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), and IL-1β, IL-6, and CRP. 
At the same time, GDF-15 represents a surrogate marker for renal dysfunction. 
According to the ROC analysis, patients at high mortality risk can be identified 
with adequate accuracy by cardiac troponin, GDF-15, and IL-10, in addition to 
NT-proBNP. Logistic regression models confirmed NT-proBNP and IL-10 as mortality 
predictors. Conclusions: IL-1β stands out for its significant prognostic role, 
while IL-6 did not demonstrate a diagnostic or prognostic role in acute 
myocardial infarction patients. IL-10 demonstrated superior predictive value in 
terms of fatal prognosis compared with the other modern biomarkers. GDF-15 is 
representative of a multivalent biomarker involved in inflammation, heart 
failure, and renal dysfunction.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics15101211
PMCID: PMC12110678
PMID: 40428204

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


3. Open Life Sci. 2025 May 20;20(1):20221040. doi: 10.1515/biol-2022-1040. 
eCollection 2025.

Effects of tiered cardiac rehabilitation on CRP, TNF-α, and physical endurance 
in older adults with coronary heart disease.

Luo C(1), Li L(2), Hou L(1), Shi F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, The Fourth Hospital of Changsha, 
Changsha, 410219, China.
(2)Ward of Neurology, The Fourth Hospital of Changsha, Changsha, 410006, China.

Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a highly prevalent disease in the elderly 
population, with atherosclerosis as its pathology, which can also be viewed as a 
chronic inflammatory response of the organism. Regular moderate-intensity 
exercise can direct the immune response toward an anti-inflammatory state, which 
is beneficial for improving the health and exercise tolerance. In cardiac 
rehabilitation, attention to the management of inflammatory factors as well as 
the improvement of exercise endurance is beneficial for the rehabilitation of 
elderly patients with coronary artery disease. This study investigates the 
impact of tiered cardiac rehabilitation programs on levels of C-reactive protein 
(CRP), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), and the capacity for physical 
exertion in older CHD patients. From March 2020 to April 2022, 94 elderly 
patients with CHD visiting our institution were recruited and randomly allocated 
into either a control group or an observation group, each comprising 47 
participants. The standard care group participated in traditional rehabilitation 
exercises, whereas the experimental group received customized, tiered, cardiac 
rehabilitation interventions. We assessed the variations in CRP and tumor 
necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) levels, along with exercise capacity, before and 
after treatment in both groups. The result shows that significant reductions in 
CRP and TNF-α levels were seen in the experimental group after 4 and 12 weeks, 
compared to the standard care group. Analysis showed clear trends in CRP and 
TNF-α changes over the interventions, with the experimental group showing better 
results. CRP levels decreased consistently, while TNF-α levels stayed stable. 
The experimental group also showed improvements in physical endurance measures 
compared to the control group. Interleukin 6 (IL-6) and fibrinogen (Fib) in the 
observation group decreased compared with the control group (P < 0.01). After 12 
weeks of treatment, CRP and TNF-α showed significant negative correlation with 
exercise endurance index - 6 min walking test (6 MWT), anaerobic threshold (AT), 
maximum oxygen consumption (VO2max), and exercise duration (ED); significant 
positive correlation between cardiac rehabilitation grade and exercise endurance 
index (6 MWT, AT, VO2max and ED); and both groups experienced cardiovascular 
adverse events and exercise muscle injury. The analysis shows that the graded 
nursing of cardiac rehabilitation can effectively reduce the levels of CRP, 
TNF-α, IL-6, and Fib in elderly patients with CHD and significantly improve the 
exercise endurance of patients with good safety.

© 2025 the author(s), published by De Gruyter.

DOI: 10.1515/biol-2022-1040
PMCID: PMC12103183
PMID: 40417004

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: Authors state no conflict 
of interest.


4. J Am Heart Assoc. 2025 May 20;14(10):e040937. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.124.040937.
Epub  2025 May 13.

Intersection of Cardio-Oncology: An Overview of Radiation-Induced Heart Disease 
in the Context of Tumors.

Zhao C(1), Xu S(2), Yang Y(2), Shen X(1), Wang J(2), Xing S(1), Yu Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Hematology and Biochemistry, Beijing Key 
Laboratory for Radiobiology Beijing Institute of Radiation Medicine Beijing 
China.
(2)Department of Cardiology Chinese PLA General Hospital Beijing China.

Radiation-induced heart disease (RIHD) is a prevalent cardiovascular 
complication of radiation therapy, with coronary heart disease being the most 
common manifestation. Clinical presentations of RIHD vary and may include 
conduction abnormalities, ischemic heart disease, cardiomyopathy, heart failure, 
and valvular damage. Even low doses of radiation significantly increase the risk 
of cardiovascular disease, often associated with severe stenosis detected via 
angiography. Radiation-induced damage to the cardiac endothelium triggers 
inflammatory responses and oxidative stress, which contribute to the progression 
of atherosclerosis. This study explores how radiation activates multiple 
signaling pathways through the generation of reactive oxygen species, resulting 
in vascular endothelial damage, cellular senescence, inflammatory responses, and 
DNA damage. It further examines the impact of radiation on vascular integrity 
and tight junction proteins, leading to increased vascular permeability and 
infiltration by inflammatory cells. From a clinical perspective, we emphasize 
the challenges posed by the coexistence of tumors in many patients with RIHD, as 
tumors complicate the microenvironment and may have mutually reinforcing 
interactions with radiation-induced damage. We also discuss various therapeutic 
strategies, including novel approaches targeting cellular senescence and immune 
responses, with a focus on the potential use of navitoclax and IL-6 
(interleukin-6) inhibitors to prevent irreversible cardiomyocyte fibrosis and 
ongoing vascular damage. In conclusion, RIHD is a multifaceted disease involving 
complex biological processes and signaling pathways. Early intervention and 
targeted therapies are crucial for improving patient outcomes. Future research 
should prioritize uncovering the molecular mechanisms of RIHD and developing 
more effective therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.124.040937
PMCID: PMC12184584
PMID: 40357679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


5. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 May 12;347:119741. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119741. Epub
 2025 Apr 10.

Xin-shu-bao tablets ameliorates ventricular remodeling against HFrEF via 
PPARγ/MFGE8 pathway based on MALDI-MSI and lipidomics.

Zhang F(1), Li Z(2), Zhang Y(1), Yang J(1), Xiao H(1), Li X(3), Yang H(4).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Basic Research on 
Prevention and Treatment for Major Diseases, Experimental Research Center, China 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Basic Research on 
Prevention and Treatment for Major Diseases, Experimental Research Center, China 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China; Chinese Pharmacology 
College, Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun, Jilin, 130117, 
China.
(3)Beijing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Basic Research on 
Prevention and Treatment for Major Diseases, Experimental Research Center, China 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China. Electronic address: 
phd_xianyuli@foxmail.com.
(4)Beijing Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine Basic Research on 
Prevention and Treatment for Major Diseases, Experimental Research Center, China 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China; State Key Laboratory for 
Quality Ensurance and Sustainable Use of Dao-di Herbs, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences, Beijing, 100700, China. Electronic address: 
hongjun0420@vip.sina.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Xin-shu-bao tablets (XSB), a traditional Chinese 
medicine widely prescribed in China, have received approval for its role in 
enhancing cardiac function in coronary heart disease patients. Lipid metabolism 
plays a critical role in the onset and progression of ventricular remodeling in 
heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). However, the 
pharmacological mechanisms through which XSB influences lipid metabolism in the 
context of ventricular remodeling with HFrEF have yet to be elucidated.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The aim of the present study was to explore the potential of 
XSB as an inhibitor of ventricular remodeling in patients with HFrEF and to 
uncover the mechanisms by which XSB exerts myocardial protection via lipid 
metabolism.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: To investigate the cardioprotective effects of XSB on 
HFrEF following myocardial infarction (MI), a murine model of MI generated by 
ligating the left anterior descending artery. The myocardial protective effects 
of XSB were evaluated through histological analysis of cardiac tissue and 
quantification of serum biomarkers associated with myocardial injury. Cardiac 
fibrosis was assessed using Masson's trichrome staining and Western blot 
analysis. Apoptosis, efferocytosis, and inflammation were measured through TUNEL 
staining, WB, and q-PCR in myocardial tissues. Differentially expressed 
metabolites in the myocardium were identified using MALDI-MSI and lipidomics 
analysis. Additionally, the involvement of the PPARγ/MFGE8 pathway in the 
cardioprotective effects of XSB was explored using Western blot validation in 
heart tissues. These approaches collectively aimed to elucidate the underlying 
mechanisms by which XSB exerts its cardioprotective effects, particularly 
through lipid metabolism.
RESULTS: Our findings demonstrated that treatment with XSB significantly 
attenuated structural and functional cardiac impairments, as indicated by 
improvements in cardiac function and reductions in apoptosis, efferocytosis, 
inflammation, and cardiac fibrosis in myocardial tissues. Specifically, XSB 
markedly decreased the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-6, 
IL-10, and TNF-α. Additionally, XSB downregulated the expression of 
apoptosis-related proteins BAX and Caspase-3, while increasing the expression of 
the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. Metabolomic analyses using MALDI-MSI and 
lipidomics revealed that XSB suppressed the elevated levels of glycerol 
phospholipids, such as PC(16:1e_22:5), PI(18:0_20:4), PI(18:2_20:4), 
PC(16:0e_22:4), LPS(18:0), PI(16:0_18:2), PC(19:0_22:6), and PS(18:1_22:6) in 
myocardial tissues. Furthermore, XSB modulated the expression of key proteins 
associated with lipid metabolism, including upregulation of PPARγ and SLC27A1, 
and downregulation of MFGE8, MERTK, and GSN. These results suggest that XSB 
exerts its cardioprotective effects through modulation of lipid metabolism and 
related signaling pathways.
CONCLUSIONS: XSB demonstrate cardioprotective effects by improving cardiac 
function and modulating ventricular remodeling processes in mice with HFrEF. 
These processes involve attenuation of inflammation, apoptosis, efferocytosis, 
and cardiac fibrosis. The cardioprotective mechanisms of XSB are mediated 
through the regulation of lipid metabolism via the PPARγ/MFGE8 signaling 
pathway.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.119741
PMID: 40216048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

=== Gene: TYK2 ===
No results found.


